---
layout: page
title: At Home
date: 2008-01-25 21:06:00
topic: a winter rant
permalink: /:collection/at-home/
---

### January 25, 2008 ###

Although today has been a sunny day, we haven't had much opportunity
to go for a walk. This is partly my fault--I haven't organized my time
to fit a walk in during the warmest time of day. The other factors
have been snow, very cold temperatures, wind and inconvenience.

Elwood has a trouble with salt or wet getting between his paws.
Walking past the bank at 3rd and Main is especially difficult. He
stops at the alley and suggests we go to 2nd Street or cross 3rd in
the middle of the block. It takes a lot of encouragement for him to go
forward and he hops about. I have thought of putting on his "boots"
but as we were not successful when we used them at school, I am lothe
to go through the trial of getting them onto his feet. I am almost
positive he would lose one of them by the time we got to AMain Street.
As smart as he is, Elwood is a little slow at figuring out it is to
his advantage to keep such things in place.

He has become a better worker in snow. Unfortunately, he still thinks
it would be fun to depart from our route and play in the snow.
Wouldn't that be fun? Probably and I feel badly we can't, or at least
he can't, but we could easily become lost and separated. I have no
idea how Elwood would handle being loose and I don't want to find out.

Elwood likes being cute and knows everybody else thinks he is just
adorable when he's doing cute things. It drives me wild and being
tough on him is never popular.

The other day, I had him finally settled under the table at a
restaurant. He wanted to visit with my friend who was sitting across
from me. We were proceeding with our breakfast and our conversation. A
woman came up and asked if she could pet the dog. I said, "No," and
she proceeded to carry on, with tears in her eyes, how Elwood looked
so much like the yellow lab she had had and went from dog story to dog
story about every dog she had ever had. Results? Elwood now bounced
around. She had interrupted my friend and me. I was very annoyed.
Uncharitable? I am willing to be charitable, but not to letting people
pet my dog. I am compassionate, but not to the point of having my
breakfast totally disrupted. Don't people get it?

