---
layout: page
title: Elwood at School
date: 2006/11/27
tags: [Autobiography, Guide Dog]
categories: [Nonfiction]
topic: A series of LiveJournal blog posts describing my experiences at the Seeing Eye in 2006.
---

Date: November 27, 2006

Subject: Elwood

"Here's the news you've all been waiting for. Elwood is a male yellow
Labrador Retriever. He's not a big dog. At the moment he is laying
quietly under the computer desk. He hasn't decided to like me yet. I'm
okay when I bring food. He will be quite affectionate. When he forgets
he doesn't like me, he jumps in my lap and kisses me. Then he remembers
he doesn't like me, gets down and watches the door, hoping our
instructor will come.

### Date: 2006-11-29 Time: 11:54

Subject: Life Here

We are awakened at 5:30 a.m. over an intercom in our rooms. Then it's
hurry, hurry, hurry. Go to the bathroom. Get some clothes on. In the
middle of this, someone comes with your dog's food. Add water. Give it
to your dog. Elwood dives at the dish and is eating in mid air. My
instructor said I should make him sit--he'll do that, then wait to be
told he can eat when I put down the bowl. I can put down the bowl, but
then, charge!

Meanwhile, I am finishing getting dressed enough to go outside and
filling his water bowl with 3 cups of water. At this point, his input is
regulated. In the kennels, the dogs relieve whenever they feel the need.
They have been housebroken in their puppy families, but may need a
review.

Then it's off to park, often on a dead run. Elwood seems to be getting
into a better routine with his body so maybe the initial stress is
wearing off. He was a tad constipated.

Right now we are waiting for people breakfast at 7.

Today we will go on two more trips along a residential street. We've
been told we will have our first "traffic check" this afternoon--a staff
driven car will be in a driveway across the sidewalk. There will be more
of these later.

Last night we had a presentation of dog fears. Earlier, there was one on
correcting your dog. These take about an hour. We also have to groom our
dogs at least once a day. There is down time, but it is in small
increments.

Mood: happy

## Date: 2006-11-30 Time: 00:41

Subject: Harness All the Time

Elwood is starting to get used to how life will be. Some lab behaviors
are popping out. For example: Elwood has a fondness for bananas. He pops
up at the breakfast table when my neighbor gets hers. Today I had one. I
had to resettle him several times during breakfast. At lunchtime, which
is really dinner, Elwood kept bouncing up because we had fried chicken
and macaroni and cheese. Settling a dog down with finger-licking-good
hands is a challenge.

A note on the food: It's good to be back in New Jersey. The hamberger
came without mayo. It was jewish style cole slaw at dinner today. The
staff is laughing at me. My instructor drives with NJ abandon. It's good
to spend some time back in my old environment.

Right now I am waiting for my instructor to come to oversee our first
trip in the house with Elwood in harness. To date, I have been heeling
him inside on just a leash. After tonight's meal, we will go everywhere
in harness except to our own lounge area since this is considered being
at home.

**Later**

Elwood is very hesitant in harness in the house. In fact, he semed to be
quite shocked that he was expected to work inside as I have been heeling
him to the door. Unfortunately, we don't have the right tention on the
harness when he walks slowly--a definite no-no. Dinner was fairly
uneventful. I did get a coffee cup with a large nose on it that stuck
out which had to make the rounds of the table to show everyone. On our
way back, we had some problems. I was focused on the route. The
instrucgtor still on hall monitor duty kept reminding me of all Elwood's
infractions and my inattention to them. Hey! I was trying to keep track
of how I was holding the handle (which is different than I was holding
it before) and keeping the tention, or at least trying to.

After we got back to our room, I took the shopping bag with Elwood's
grooming tools and we went down into the basement where the grooming
room is. (We are not allowed to groom the dogs anywhere else.) We had
some difficulty finding the room and doing the clearances right so
correct and repeat.

The grooming room has a bench running around the outside so the dogs can
stand there while you stand on the floor. There are windows to the
hallway. I stood on the bench to find the hooks for the harness. They
are at the ceiling. Elwood must have thought it was quite peculiar to be
told to sit on the floor while I climbed up. Then I called him to me and
jumped down. The bag being a nuisance, crinkly sounding and a hindrance
to hand signals, I ditched it and put the tools in my pockets for the
return journey. And yes, it's a journey! Each landing is a stop and
forward and there are two landings per staircase.

The van is high. There are several steps to get up into it. There are no
straps, no arm rests to hang onto. This morning, while I was getting up
into the back in preparation for calling Elwood to me, I slipped and
ended up sitting on the van's floor. No carpet either! The other student
and I laughed and laughed. I wasn't hurt. I was coming back down because
Elwood wasn't sitting at rest. Each time he gets up, I have to come back
and resettle him.

We worked in pairs this afternoon. This means two students walking the
same route at the same time. We meet at the curbs and then the other one
takes the lead. We were doing okay. We were waiting for our traffic
check. The class supervisor pulled into the driveway ahead of me, bumper
scraping the ground. I jumped. Elwood remained calm, stopping. Good dog!

Mood: okay

## 2006-11-30 Time: 22:00

Subject: South Street Route

Today we started a new route. It's called the South Street Route because
it does have four blocks of South Street along the square as one part of
it. Morristown is under construction. They are adding lamp posts in the
center of the wide sidewalk. Also the department store Epstene's is
being torn down and a new development will go in there. Part of it will
be a parking garage where the Seeing Eye vans can park and a new lounge.
The lounge has places for the dog to stay and people. I can't tell you
anything about it because I've never been there. For one reason or
another it has been closed when I have trained.

Along the route today we had a traffic check. I screwed up so we had
another one--a car pulling in front of us in a driveway. We also had an
unplanned check--a quiet car came out of nowhere in front of us while
crossing a street.

We also delt with clearance issues. A barrier of cones had been set up.
Elwood had to squeeze around between them and some bushes. Later, he
went too close to some bushes so we had to rework that. We also had
numerous distractions--some planned and some not. Elwood did OK on some
and not so well on others. That goes for me, too.

We've added an extra park time for Elwood before our afternoon trip.
Relieving is a major topic of conversation here and we spend a great
deal of time concentrating on it. Tonight we began touching our dogs.

Elwood's harness has been temporarily modified so we can get a better
feel for one another. This makes a big difference when we walk together.
He pulls better and I can do my part of keeping the tention.

This afternoon Elwood thought about escaping from the van. I didn't have
a tight hold on him so I dived across the back of the van to grab him.

Today we worked without any jackets it was so warm. I understand this
will change Friday.

My massage this afternoon was very nice. She worked on my calves which
have been worked hard. I have a longer appointment Sunday afternoon.

Well 5:30 AM comes around quickly. Not only do I have to get up, I have
to feed the dog, get dressed, get harnessed up and get outside which
includes a nasty set of stairs.

My spy thriller also awaits.

Mood: exhausted

## Date: 2006-12-01 06:42

Subject: Morning People

I have never been a morning person. I can get up. I can do what is
necessary, however, I am not a morning person.

Today I was awakened at 5:30 a.m. with Frank Sinatra singing about
coffee in Brazil. A bit jarring. Big band orchestration but not a young
Sinatra singing. I stagger out of bed and start looking for clothes. The
instructor arrives with food and with instructions.

""What?""

""Here's a heart guard pill. Take it from your shoulder down to your dog
and tell him take it.'""

Something new at 5:30 am?

My responses must have been genetic. I sounded just like my mother in
the morning. I usually don't sound like her, but in the morning ...

Well, she'll have to come and search the floor. I dropped the pill while
trying to give it to a very excited dog.

Note to self: Be more firm with Elwood. He can obey even before
breakfast. We have different mothers.

## Date: 2006-12-01 Time: 16:52

Subject: Difficult Day,

A difficult day today. It was rainy in the morning and it was warm. Came
back drenched--Elwood, too. I was paired up with one student in the A.M.
and paired up with a different student this afternoon. It was so dark
and the sidewalks were crowded by 3 p.m.

Elwood worked well avoiding most obstacles and being careful in tight
places, however, he wasn't pulling. I'm working with the instructor and
the class supervisor. We'll see how Elwood does tomorrow at our "test"
and at the beginning of the week with a day and a half of rest. It's
worrisome. Pray for restorative rest and good work habits.

Mood: anxious

## Date: 2006-12-02 Time: 10:17

Subject: Solo

Elwood and I had our solo today.

We were second of two so we sat in the van for a time. Elwood jumped
into my lap, all cuddly. I'm learning that he is a sneak and a cheat so
don't play poker with him! Licking my face also means an opportunity for
looking out the side and back windows of the van.

It is a gorgeous day here. The storm came through quickly last night. By
the time I got outside for our solo walk, I could open my light winter
coat. The sun is out.

We had a very successful trip. Elwood pulled well. I understand he took
advantage of me. Remember, Elwood is a cheat and a sneak. I thought we
had a tight place by a tree. We didn't. Elwood just wanted to sniff. He
also did some air scenting and slipped under a flag which brushed the
top of my hair. I caught him at taking a shortcut through a gravel area
with trees and made him do it right. Otherwise, he was great.

He is tired though. He laid down on the van floor after coming in up and
over my lap.

Getting out of the van, I slipped and sat down hard.. Elwood bounced out
of the van so we had to do it all over again correctly.

He's been quiet. We don't have a trip scheduled until Monday morning
though we can take a turn around the leisure path this afternoon and
tomorrow which will be very nice. The leisure path was closed due to
snow cover when I was here last so this is a welcome treat.

We also have to do laundry and get some serious writing done.

Mood: accomplished

## Date: 2006-12-04 Time: 07:40

Subject: Sunday and Monday Morning,

On Sundays, no trips are scheduled. It's a day of rest and relaxation.
This sounds as if we just sit around and do nothing. Nothing is farther
from the truth.

We were awakened at 6:30, one hour later. No music thankfully. I got a
load of wash in before breakfast. After breakfast, I went to the tech
center because my laptop was not connecting to the INTERNET. Neither
were the computers in the tech center. They had some sort of fire wall
problem which was later fixed. I also learned how to use a treadmill.

Then it was time for a meeting. We learned about the new gentle leaders,
a flexi line and put rough weather booties on our dogs. One of the other
class members and I were on the floor with our labs who were rolling
around, wondering what these items were. We all got to laughing. We all
hope the first couple of mornings we think we need to use these that we
have plenty of time to suit up.

Afterwards, another class member and I went out onto the leisure path.
It's a third of a mile long and makes a loop through some of the 60
acres of the Seeing Eye property. We went around twice, each of us
taking the lead for one trip.

Then it was time for Sunday dinner at 1 p.m. After that I had a
60-minute massage. Lots of tight places.

3 p.m. I tried to take a nap. My instructor wanted to do obedience. I
turned her away. A class member checked in. I did the same.

There was Elwood's dinner and park, my dinner and a run to put the last
load of wash in, a hasty reading for yet another meeting, upstairs for
the meeting itself, back downstairs for the wash, back outside for park,
and then back to look in on a classmate who was not feeling well.

I was given some more information about Elwood. He was born January 8,
2005. He is 22 inches tall and weighs 60.7 pounds. This makes him about
Caitlin's size when I first got her but he seems smaller. You can judge.
Caitlin weighed about 76 pounds when she died.

Today we are going to learn a new route and do it solo on Wednesday.

Mr. Elwood has expressed interest in my laptop this morning. He is
beginning to recognize that my attention to it is inattention to him. He
is also starting to take my hands off the keyboard.

## Date: 2006-12-04 Time: 11:03

Subject: Elm Street Route

We started to learn the Elm Street route. It is basically pie-shaped
with the north side of South Street forming the crust of the pie. Elm
Street forms one side of the slice and five streets:

1. King
2. Pine
3. Wilmont
4. Spring
5. Dumont

are on the other side.

It's cold and windy today. We passed day laborers looking for work. They
must be very cold as their streets were shady and the wind was blowing.
I was there about 8:30 a.m. Have they been standing around since 3 or 4
a.m.?

Elwood has some do-overs--a dog distraction and a barrier of the
construction tape across the sidewalk variety. We are learning how to
work together. Elwood is sensitive and needs support to assertively push
me if he needs to go around an obstacle. I need to help him to gain
confidence to do this.

We also had a traffic check--the class supervisor drove a van toward us,
causing Elwood to back up. I need to learn how to back up with him.
These are staged and I know they are coming. they are carried out on the
streets and in driveways.

The cars and vans the staff drive have the Seeing Eye logo on them.
Sometimes they get stopped by the public, wondering why they are trying
to run over the people with dogs. They have to explain what they are
doing. Once when an instructor was working with someone without a dog
but with the harness, someone came up to the instructor and said,

    Didn't they used to have dogs doing this? Have you replaced them
    with human beings?

## Date: 2006-12-05 Time: 07:37

Subject: Local Color

Yesterday: a second go-round of the Elm Street route. There's a ditty
for the street names. I'll capitalize the street names:

    The King of Pine Wil not [Mont] Spring over Dumont to South.

Pine--we cross it twice, has a light and so does Spring. It's 1.5 miles
long so we walked 3 miles yesterday.

When we got back, my neighbor stopped by. We are still tied to our dogs.
Her dog proceeded to urinate on the floor, soaking my bedspread and
coat. Housekeeping was alerted about the spread. I went off to the
laundry room. I fell asleep so didn't get the coat dried before
afternoon park. I used my polartek vest which was enough. On my way to
the laundry downstairs, I ran into (literally) the Seeing Eye president
and his dog. He apologized for interfering with my exit to park. "We're
on our way back," I told him. "Our shoes are safe." For evening park, I
couldn't locate my gloves. I have since found them.

Elwood is a trial at park. I wash my shoes regularly. The instructors
are starting to laugh at me. I'm always jumping back from him while I'm
trying to unharness him. He also walks when he poops. I am usually
standing in the middle of a circle by the time he's done. The trick will
be to stop him from walking while not stopping him from pooping.

We're off for another turn around the block, so to speak.

## Date: 2006-12-08 Time: 11:44

Subject: Hound Dog

Today we go to the train and return on the bus. It is very cold. We were
awakened at 5:30 by Elvis and an announcement that it was 17 degrees
out--and blowing. Park was better this morning: no wet shoes, no wet
jeans, poop in a straight line.

Yesterday we did some country work, walking on a road without sidewalks.
More trouble than it's worth! Our second trip was back on South Street,
into stores, walking on the Green in the center of town. The graduates
who live in town don't walk on the Green because it is impossible to
judge the traffic and use the traffic islands to get there.

Our Elm Street solo went fine. I partnered with another woman who found
memorizing the route and the traffic overwhelming. She lives in the
country. We had to work around a construction site--an unplanned
barrier. I realized how strange it is to hear construction since there
is not a lot of it in Jamestown. I think the day laborers were talking
about us. I think I heard the word *error* as I passed. Later in the
trip, there was a dog guide backup at the planned barrier. We were 4 of
4. Elwood didn't even bother to go up to the barrier. he just made the
turn. We had to wait for traffic to step out into the road. In the
afternoon, we rode escalators and elevators in a department store.

At my final massage session, the woman said everyone told her they were
tired. She was doing a lot with leg muscles. I learned that although my
knees ached, it is probably the thigh muscles which ache.

Elwood is being very stupid about going to his mat. He is very clear
about staying there while I bring the food. In the afternoon, we have to
tell them to stay put while we fix dinner. He is very clear about what
gets dinner there fast--or he thinks he's tied up--I don't know which
yet.

I managed to tie him up in the flixline--25 feet of tape measure. It
reminded me of the time I got Caitlin wrapped up in a microphone wire
during worship.

**Later ...**

The train was late so we took it both ways and will leave the bus to
another day. It was very cold waiting on the platform. Elwood has been
taught to avoid the edge of the platform when there is no train. A
forward command from several feet away causes him to immediately turn
left or right. We needed to use the stairs both ways to get on and off
the train. When we got back, Elwood stopped at a very high curb. He
refused to go off of it. Who knows! It might have been a platform. Hey,
he was at a train station. Finally, we got him into the parking lot.

Train station: Elwood 100%, Merrill, about an 82. Platforms make me
nervous though I traveled NJ Transit and Septa 7 to and from LTSP for a
semester.

Mood: cold

## Date: 2006-12-09 Time: 20:32

Subject: Fasten Your Seat Belts

Yesterday we had a "Meet and Greet" exercise whereby some of the
instructors came up to shake my hand and Elwood had to remain sitting.

"Is this a wedding with the mother of the bride?" one of the instructors
asked.

"Sunday morning worship," I replied.

He came, sobbing, saying "A wonderful sermon."

He greeted another student, thanking her for such a lovely wedding, then
he came back to me, shaking my hand, telling me what a wonderful sermon
for the funeral. The task was serious, the play acting hysterically
funny.

We shopped at a pet store and went to Wall-Mart for our afternoon
outing. One of the dogs jumped up on the counter when his person was
checking out.

This morning we did some country-style work in a subdivision--walking
along people's front yards, around parked cars, onto short pieces of
sidewalk, lining myself up to cross a street.

Afterwards, we went to an A&P to practice shopping cart work. We've been
doing it right, shoppers, guide in front of the basket, person and dog
behind. Elwood left the bread and the meat alone.

Clerks crack me up. They are giving you instructions with the debit card
because you're blind and then keep saying, "Now press the green button."

I was able to get my wash done--not a lot to do because of the early
instances of emergency washes.

Lunch was a cafeteria line with a tray and silverware wrapped in
napkins. Our sandwiches and dessert were wrapped in foil, our macaroni
salad in a cup with a lid and our soup in a double coffee cup with a
lid. Then we worked our dogs to our tables while carrying the tray
against our bodies. I said to our server, who also does housekeeping,
"You must hate it--all this trash to pick up." She replied, "I don't
hate. I can handle it once a month." Drinks were served at the table.

This afternoon we practiced in the airline seats provided by
Continental. These were first class seats though with lots of room for
dogs, even in the bulk heads.

We read our puppy profiles. Elwood was raised by a veteran puppy
raiser--an older couple with grandchildren who came to visit. Some
reports have lots of information. Sadly, neither of my puppy reports
have been too detailed. My instructor said the training report she gets
was not particularly detailed either.

We changed tables again at supper for the rest of the time here. I don't
handle this well. This table will take some getting used to. I tire of
the cross examinations. Just let me be!

This evening we learned how to massage our dogs. Elwood wasn't sure
about this at first. He mellowed over time. We listened to this album: A
Gathering Of Eagles.

Mood: mellow

## Date: 2006-12-13 06:54

Subject: Low Places,

Sunday was a busy day though no trips are scheduled. Several of us went
out on the leisure path in the morning. I went twice around--2/3 of a
mile.

Gail and Pete came. We went out on the leisure path and did a turn, then
came inside. When the lounge got crowded, we went back outside. Very
mild weather here and there was a bench in the sun. Pete passed on
another turn round the path, but Gail and I persevered.

After supper, I went for a night walk in Morristown. Elwood has never
worked at night and sometimes I walk in the dark, especially in winter.
He did great. I even had the sense I knew where I was since we traveled
on the same streets but in a different configuration.

I had a chance to ride in a mini van and review dog-in-car. With air
bags, it will be important for Elwood to lay down while traveling. It is
being recommended that traveling longer distances in a crate is helpful.
All the puppies have been crate trained.

This morning we were awakened to Garth Brooks and "Low Places". walked
around the courthouse. We got to go through two metal detectors which
was the real point of the exercise as well as working through some
groups of people.

Elwood went to the vet because of a bump near his eye. It's being
analyzed, but the vet thinks it is a pimple. I guess when you're a
teenager, you get acne even if you are a dog! Actually, they are calling
it a whitehead.

We went through a revolving door, walked in between two men having a
heated discussion about football and that was Monday so far as trips go.

In the evening we had a long lecture. One of the instructors was giving
us some history.

    I can't remember our founder's first husband's name. All I can
    remember is his last name: Wood. She said.

    It was L.I said.

    Oh, L. Wood? She said.

The class broke up. The instructor took a while to get it. As it turns
out, the man's name was Walter Woods.

Tuesday was a zoo. First, we had to put the dog's booties on for a walk
in style.. Then we went to the coffee shop--two drinking coffee while
the other one worked. I was last to work. Elwood had been good--because
he was busy chewing a hole in one of his booties. He did great work in
one of the stores with tight clearances.

I met a woman on the street who asked how I knew she was there. I
didn't--just that Elwood was sniffing something.

In the afternoon, I had my exit interview with the president, went to
the vet to hear about Elwood's health history and our class went for ice
cream Sundaes.

Our instructor thought it would be good to do some sedan work. We had
one person and one dog in front, a second dog and person in the back and
I was also to get into the back seat with Elwood. I got in. Elwood got
in. The dog already there thought it was a bit tight and growled. The
instructor decided to "spin" Elwood around, which meant Elwood was on my
lap while spinning. However, he didn't quite fit because when we closed
the door, he jumped onto my lap. We got in the van to go to town.

When we went for ice cream, I went outside but didn't know where the van
was. Another classmate joined us. A classmate in the van called to us.
"Oh, no," I thought. "She's driving!"

Today the local students go home. An instructor drives them and settles
them in. We are all frantically figuring out how to get everything in
our suitcases including 8 pounds of dog food.

Last night at park two of us stepped in our dog's output. We were
instructed to come to the wall and hold up our shoes for inspection.
"not like that," the instructor said. "Like a horse." He untied our
offending shoes and left us there, one shoe off, one shoe on, holding
onto the wall. He was gone a long time. Water wasn't enough to get my
shoe clean. It is still quite wet. Fortunately, I have another pair of
shoes!

Mood: rushed

## Date: 2006-12-13 Time: 11:27

Subject: Going Home

This morning the local students left. They are driven home by an
instructor who does some work with them around home. We had to say
good-bye to one of our classmates. Our class list has names and
addresses but not phone numbers. I asked if she could take down my
number. She said her equipment was packed. Then I had an idea--I went to
the map room where there is a braille machine and wrote down my numbers.

This morning we went to the hospital. Elwood was indifferent to the
hospital personnel and equipment he saw. Our greatest excitement was the
electronic revolving door.

I am mostly packed. What is left I am still using.

It's raining and I'm wearing my crocks which means the rain can come
through the holes. My sneakers are almost dry, sitting on the window
sill.

This afternoon we will take the bus.

This brings me to going home. Here are some things to remember.

-  Elwood is a new, young dog. Caitlin was older and seasoned.
-  Do not compare these dogs. They are both labs but the similarity ends
   there.
-  Elwood will make mistakes. He has never been in Jamestown or any
   place else I've been already.
-  **Do not pet the dog!** Elwood and I need to develop good working
   habits. What we do in this first month will be with us forever!
-  I will be tied to Elwood for at least two weeks. No one else can take
   him anywhere. We will be establishing our patterns and his park
   schedule.
-  Elwood has a lot to live up to and some specific skills to develop.
   We will be spending a lot of time working on his behavior at home and
   away. For example, Elwood will learn how to lay quietly unsupervised
   during the anointing and sharing of the peace at the Thursday morning
   healing service. He doesn't know how to do this now but he can sit in
   his place and wait for his dinner to arrive. it's amazing.
-  Although you are all special people, I am the only one special to
   Elwood for the next 6-12 months. That's how long it will take to
   adjust to one another.
-  Remember, Elwood has not lived in a household situation since May. He
   will have to relearn this.

Elwood was very curious this morning. I packed his mut mat in my
suitcase. I think that caused more sniffing than the 8-pound bag of
food.

Mood: optomistic
