Chance Encounter

by Rill Woolnough

I have worked with Seeing Eye® Dog guides for more than twenty-five
years. In 2016, I decided to retire Elwood, a yellow Labrador Retriever.
We had worked together for over nine years. Although still willing to
work, Elwood walked more slowly and sometimes had trouble concentrating
on his guiding.

Training with a new dog is one of the hardest things I've ever done; it
is intense. It is getting to know someone---a dog someone---very well,
very quickly. It is doing what it takes to become a team in a little
over two weeks. It is building trust between you and your dog­---trust
that will see you through busy street crossings and unfamiliar
environments.

I applied to the Seeing Eye, Inc. in Morristown, New Jersey and was
accepted into the August class. I arrived at The Seeing Eye on Monday.
After orientation and unpacking, I met my instructor, Kaelin. Over the
next thirty-six hours, we discussed what kind of dog would best fit my
lifestyle and abilities. Kaelin and others evaluated how fast I walked,
how I moved when holding onto the dog's harness and how strongly the dog
should pull when in harness. The dog harness is an essential piece of
equipment. It connects me as the handler with the dog. By holding onto
the harness, I can tell what the dog is doing and vice versa. The leash
allows me to correct the dog and control the dog when not in harness. I
was looking for a dog with a moderate pull, zen in character and who
could walk at a quick pace---at least, what was quick for me.

Wednesday was Match Day at the Seeing Eye. As instructed, I went to the
Women's Lounge. Kaelin said, “Your new dog is Chance. He is a black
Labrador Golden cross.” (His maternal grandmother was the Golden
Retriever.)

I called Chance over and petted him. “Oh my goodness. He's not at all
like Elwood,” I thought. Elwood had a thin face and long nose. I called
it his Pinocchio nose which he shoved into everything, including me. By
contrast, Chance had a flat face, a stubby body and a stubby tail.
Elwood's fur was fluffy and fly-away when he was freshly washed.
Chance's coat felt rough and a bit oily though I knew he had had a bath
recently. Oh well. “This is a new dog. I went through this the last
time,” I thought. “Elwood was so different from my first dog, Caitlin. I
will just get used to him. After a while, he'll just be Chance and I
won't compare him to anyone else. But I was disappointed.”

The leisure path is a third-mile macadam path through the grounds of The
Seeing Eye. There are two gazebos with benches where people can sit and
enjoy the outdoors.

Saturday we walked the leisure path as a class. Sunday night I went out
alone with Chance to enjoy a cool summer evening. I wanted to re-walk
the leisure path as we had the previous afternoon, but we got lost. The
path is basically circular with a tail going to and from the building.
Except for the tail, traffic needs to flow in only one direction because
the path is only one team wide. Over and over again we walked the last
section of the path, from the building to the second gazebo and back
again. We kept missing the turn to walk the entire course as planned.

Finally, I heard someone walk by me. I hailed him. I recognized his
voice as one of my classmates, Harris. Harris was familiar with the
leisure path and graciously offered to walk the entire route so I could
learn it. He pointed out discernable landmarks on the way such as a
steep decline and a sharp turn. On the final leg of the journey, Chance
decided to leave the macadam and walk in the grass. I thought we should
be able to move at an angle to intercept Harris' position rather than go
back and find the path. That is when I discovered there was a row of
bushes between us.

I started walking down the line of bushes, looking for a break in the
dense foliage. I trailed Chance behind me, confident in my own abilities
to resolve the situation, disregarding the cardinal rule: “don't walk in
front of your dog.” When I found an opening, I started to step through
ahead of Chance. Chance was uneasy and wanted no part of this exercise.
I quickly found out why. When I put my foot over the cement edging, I
felt only air and not the solidity of ground or path. I retreated.
Chance returned to leading the way as we followed the bushes again.

Harris started walking back toward me and we found the end of the
bushes. There was a steep incline downwards and he helped me back onto
the path. We discovered I had been standing on a retaining wall that was
three- to four-feet high in places.

In retrospect, I should have kept Chance in front of me and worked him
down the bushes, stopping every few feet to assess the situation or just
kept telling him to turn and he would have turned when he finally could
have regained the path.

Chance did everything I asked. When I said “sit” he sat. When I said
“down” he went down. When I said “come” he came. But Chance, in many
ways, was uncommunicative. He kept his own counsel, never reacting with
enthusiasm to anything I said or did.

In speaking with Chance's trainer, Chris, who had worked with Chance for
the previous four or five months, I learned Chance was quite
introverted. “He played with his roommate in the kennel,” she said, “but
he did not have much to do with the other dogs in the yard. He played
with me, of course. He's a sweet boy.” She seemed affronted by my
faultfinding.

When we worked together out on the streets, Chance stopped at every curb
as he was trained to do. On the few occasions when he missed his target
stopping point, I corrected him. When we backed up and did it over
again, Chance was perfect. The only thing Chance did not do was walk as
fast as I wanted to walk.

Once, while we were walking along South Street, Chance broke into a
trot. This is it, I thought, but then several steps later Chance resumed
his steady pace, avoiding obstacles and pedestrians until he reached the
next curb and stopped, waiting for my next command.

Monday evening of our second week I said to my instructor, “Things
aren't getting any better. This dog isn't working out for me.”

That evening I spoke to Chance about my upcoming decision. I did not
want him to feel rejected or that he had failed in his training for dog
guide work. He was a fine dog. He was just not the right dog for me. As
usual, Chance made no response.

The next day we went out for our training time, just Kaelin and me and,
of course, Chance. (Normally, we work in pairs.) We started walking
along a quiet side street.

I said, “You see, he's not walking very fast, as fast as I would like.”

Kaelin said, “Well, tell him to go faster.”

I gave the command to go faster, “Hup-up.”

Not much happened. Chance took two steps a little quicker but that was
about it.

Kaelin and I had talked about it being a hot and humid August in New
Jersey. We had talked about Chance's coat being black, absorbing the
summer heat over 90 degrees most working days.

I said, “Today it's cooler. It's overcast. It's early morning. We don't
have all those issues.”

We stopped on the street.

Kaelin said to me, “Do you want a new dog?”

“This is it! There is no going back. If I say yes, Chance will no longer
be my dog. This is the moment of decision,” I thought.

Afterward, I realized Kaelin was asking me formally to return Chance to
the care of the Seeing Eye and relinquish any claims on him with no
guarantee there would be another suitable dog available in the kennel.
There was no going back. Once I said I wanted a new dog, I could not get
Chance back. If there was no suitable match for me right then, I would
go home immediately and wait for an opening in another class and for
another dog.

Standing on the street that August morning in Morristown, I said, “Yes,
I do want a new dog.”

I returned to the campus with the other handlers. Kaelin came and took
Chance away to the kennel to await another class and another match with
a handler. I went alone to the dining room for lunch with all the other
handlers and their dogs. While at lunch I learned one of the other
handlers, Stanley, had hurt his ankle and could not continue with the
class. As he was a part of a different training group, I did not really
know him.

In the afternoon, Kaelin brought Nick, a beautiful yellow Labrador
Retriever, to me.

“Full disclosure,” Kaelin said, “This was Stanley's dog. We had
considered several dogs for you initially. Nick was one of them.”

Nick is the dog I took home ten days later.

I keep coming back to this story of Chance and me. I think I retell it
because I don't know its ending. Chance was a good dog and, I hope, has
been a good dog for another handler. I kept telling everyone that. He
was just not the right dog for me.

I also think of Stanley. How would the story have been different if he
had received Chance on Match Day and Nick came to me? Would Stanley not
have fallen? Nick always wants to run everywhere.
