---
layout: post
title: "Silent Phone"
microblog: false
audio: 
date: 2018-04-02 20:35:17 -0500
guid: http://Rill.micro.blog/2018/04/03/013517.html
---
I think I have spent an hour this morning trying to work out why my iPhone was not speaking. Here is what I tried: 

*  I rebooted the iPhone several times. 

*  I connected my Braille display and VoiceOver was working. If it was not on, the Braille display would not work. I turned VoiceOver on and off via Siri several times. When I turned VoiceOver off with the Braille display connected, my display on the Braille notetaker went blank. 

* I went into the Sound Settings and found the volume was at an acceptable level. I raised and lowered it. I was able to do this because VoiceOver spoke on this screen. When I left the sound settings screen, VoiceOver stopped speaking. 

* I went through all the VoiceOver settings. I could find nothing wrong. After all, the iPhone worked just fine when I plugged it in to charge before I went to bed. 

* I played with the mute switch. (I never remember which way is mute and which way is unmuted.) Unfortunately, the Internet does not tell you which way to click the mute switch to be unmuted. The only description I found referred to a red or orange strip which becomes visible when unmuted. 

* I searched the web. Nothing I found was particularly useful. 

* I tried to play an audio file. I heard nothing. This alarmed me. All sound was turned off somehow. 

 My phone turned off. I woke it up and reviewed the lock screen. I noticed information about my bluetooth headphones. Didn't I read something about this before? Why were my headphones coming up here anyway? They are in my pocketbook. I have not taken them out for days. 

I went to find my bag. 

I could hear the. audio file still playing. The problem resolved itself immediately: Sound was being directed through my headphones rather than through my speaker. I turned off the headphones and voila, sound came back to my iPhone. Why hadn't I thought of this before? It has happened before. 

I did not think of it because I hadn't used the headphones for almost a week and my phone had worked fine yesterday. What changed?

If the crate belonged to my previous guide dog, I would blame Elwood. He was a sneak and. a cheat and I loved him dearly. Turning on my headphones by bumping my bag would have seemed just good fun to him. But Nick does not have that sort of humor. There is nothing sneaky about Nick at all. #BlogEveryDay
