---
layout: post
title: "At Last!"
microblog: false
audio: 
date: 2018-09-25 15:43:47 -0500
guid: http://Rill.micro.blog/2018/09/25/at-last-i.html
---
At last! I know what is happening at the Musical Mountains Mine and how the situation is corrected.

1. Ronnie interrupts Roop while he is refreshing the spell which controls the power transfer.
2. He attacks her and Grand Master Awk who comes to her aid.
3. Ronnie kills Roop in self defense.
4. Before he dies, Grand Master Awk has Ronnie enhance his recasting of the power transfer spell in order to redirect it back to its original path.
The nature of the spell is still hazy, but I think I now have something to work with.

It is both a credit to Grand Master Awk's tenacity and dedication that he was able to channel Ronnie's innate magical abilities to recast the spell. Wounded herself, Ronnie's final trust of Grand Master Awk allows her to allow him to do this for the greater good. It counts heavily in her favor at her trial later.

It still remains to be known if Roop was working alone or whether an additional wizard was involved. Roop is not able, according to the Tribunal, to have cast the initial spell. Questions remain.

Ronnie comes away thinking the Tribunal should have diagnosed the problem at the mine much earlier. They thought someone was pilfering mine assets, not diverting power. Since the mine assets are needed in the war effort, a proper detective was needed and as Ronnie had both detective credentials and the right security clearances, she was a logical choice. Her inexperience with magic, however, posed a serious barrier to her discovery of the problem and resulted in Grand Master Awk's death indirectly.
