---
layout: post
title: "Writing Plan of Sorts"
microblog: false
audio: 
date: 2018-06-02 14:44:23 -0500
guid: http://Rill.micro.blog/2018/06/02/194423.html
---
for me. I thought I would try #WriteEveryDay. I wanted to start on June  1st, but obviously that did not come to pass. Nevertheless, I still want to write regularly. That doesn't actually mean that I will post every day. The writing may not be in a form to post or it may be too private to post.

I am not an avid reader of memoirs or autobiographies. However, I am frequently drawn to the idea of writing a memoir--not of a particular time in my life but different sketches of things I remember. More and more I am sharing little stories with my family. I often begin talking with my grandchildren: "When I was a girl..." It sounds so old-fashioned as if I were on the prairie. (Can you tell I've moved to the Midwest?) 

I have also noticed that I want to write about my experiences in my new city. I am taking buses, exploring new organizations and meeting new people. So much of my storytelling is shared with my friends. As I think this is vital, I am also aware that these stories are ephemeral. Yet I tell them over and over again with each new person.

Should these stories last? The right to be forgotten has raised this question. Should some things just go away? Are these stories important just for an hour, a day or a week?

I have discovered that my little stories are fun to look at later. In this vain, I want to start capturing them. The only way to do this is to write them down or record them. I can do both or either as I chchoose.Huzzah. Here is a page of writing for today. It may be more like The Artist's Way daily pages, but at least it's writing. 
