---
layout: post
microblog: true
audio: 
date: 2018-06-09 19:46:23 -0500
guid: http://Rill.micro.blog/2018/06/10/004623.html
---
Caitlin was a take charge dog. I pointed ahead and said, ”forward." She hung a left and trudged up our intended sidewalk. I was certain she was saying to herself, "Blind people don't know anything."

We crossed the street and went up onto the sidewalk. "Forward," I said to Elwood. He just stood there, looking around. He radiated panic. Straight ahead was grass. The sidewalk which led over the bridge went ahead of us one step to the left. What to do? Go forward and be scolded for stepping off the sidewalk while carrying out a command or turn left in order to go forward. I slowly recognized his dilemma and gave him the left and then forward commands to get home.

Today Nick struggled to do the right thing. We crossed the street and he turned right.

"Forjard," I said. Nick turned right. He started up a sidewalk leading to a house. I brought him back to the corner.

?Right," I said.

Nick went up onto the grass.

?Phui," I said. "Not on the grass."

It turned out there was a tree with branches overhanging the sidewalk. I had scolded Nick for running me into foliage several days agago.Z we went further down the sidewalk, Nick was distracted by a barking dog. We ended up on the grass. Much scolding enensued.Standing on the grass, I instructed Nick to get going again. I stepped back as I tend to crowd Nick so he can't turn properly. Nick continued to hold his ground. ×Forward," had no effected. Neither did "Hup up." I tried not to start moving myself. Nick after all is the guide dog. I point and repeated my cocommands.

Finally, Nick moved down the slope to a curb. Was there no sidewalk on this side of the street? Possible.

We crossed and found the sidewalk on the other side, went to the corner, crossed back and reworked the sidewalk which was in tact.

I turned Nick around again and he again struggled to be on the sidewalk with the overhanging tree. Happily, Nick stayed on the sidewalk to the next cocorner.I am still coming to terms with Nick's way of telling me what I am suggesting is a bad idea. I don't know if he will become more assertive. In this case, he needed to turn in an entirely different direction to regain the sidewalk. With Nick's great speed and strength, it is difficult for me to to understand how complient Nick really is.   
