---
layout: post
title: " Mobility "
microblog: false
audio: 
date: 2018-04-04 17:55:42 -0500
guid: http://Rill.micro.blog/2018/04/04/mobility.html
---
Today I worked with my mobility instructor to understand how to take the bus to [Vision Forward](http://vision-forward.org). I was relieved to learn that the bus stop near my apartment is easy to find. Both Nick and I were disappointed that I did not bring "you found the pole" treats with me. Blame the cold weather. The treats were in a lighter weight jacket.

As my instructor had another appointment after mine, I elected not to take the bus to the transfer point but to have him drive us there.

I get off the bus at the corner and then I have a choice: 

* I can cross a busy street to get to the next bus stop. (There is a shelter there.)

* I can walk down a fairly long block to find another bus stop. It is right at the cornerand very easy to find.

If the weather is good and there is time, walking a block sounds like a very easy solution to me. It also gives Nick a chance to relieve himself if necessary. Crossing busy streets is not always a comfortable option. It means listening very carefully to traffic changing direction when the light changes. With my moderate hearing loss in one ear (corrected by a hearing aid), I do not hear as well as I once did. Sometimes it is hard to pick up the surge of traffic and therefore have the full cycle to cross the street. 

Afterwards, we simulated getting off the bus coming home from [Vision Forward](http://visionccforward.org). 

Nick was doing well, but he wanted to check the bus shelter and was not particularly interested in finding the pole. Again, I could not bribe him with treats. I suspect he will come through on the day I actually make the trip.

I am looking forward to conquering this trip as I plan to be a frequent visitor to [Vision Forward](http://vision-forward.org). I can take Paratransit at a higher cost. This means sharing rides and possibly spending much more time onboard.
