Prologue
--------

I read somewhere that novels should not have prologues. This one,
however, needs one.

As in my last novel, *Marathon, National Novel Writing Month 2013, this
story is told from several perspectives. I am  the primary
narrator, but Captain Star Runner also narrates events from her
perspective. At times we speak in our own voice. At other times, I
have taken the liberty of narrating in the third person to introduce
information and perspectives that I did not have at the time but which
will help you, the reader, make sense of this convoluted tale.

As background, (I cannot assume you know our backgrounds), Captain
Star Runner and I have moved to another arm of the galaxy. We call our
own arm the western galactic arm or the spiral arm. The people here
call their arm the primary arm. 

I am a human being from the Pharaoh Star System. My background is
police enforcement in Ptolemy City. Captain Star Runner is a
fuchsia-colored genderless Pantheran. I call Star *her*. Others call
Star *him*. Star is comfortable with *it*.  I am not.

Once we were a registered couple. We broke up. We're together again
but we have not made it legally binding. This arrangement is working
well enough. Captain Star Runner makes her living as a courier. She is
genetically engineered by the Pantheran Institute of Genetic Design to
live in conjunction with an artificial intelligence to pilot a starship
and to have the AI manage her biological functions. The AI is called
Christabel.

I do not like living aboard a spaceship and traveling about. Star
finds this odd since Ptolemy City is a domed area of Hypoxia which has
an extremely violent and toxic atmosphere. I think it is the presence
of a sky. The dome over Ptolemy City is clear and I can always look up
to see scudding yellow and red clouds with bursts of other colors
swirling overhead. The ceiling on a spaceship and the solid walls
gives me a sense of being hemmed in. Star Runner finds this feeling
comforting and reassuring. I find it claustrophobic.

The space station called Half Moon Bay is a bit more open. I have a
cubbyhole there and make the space station my home. I come aboard
Captain Star Runner's ride whenever she is in port. I also frequent
the hydroponic gardens and other open areas on the space station.

Half Moon Bay Space Station is run by the Space Traders Guild. This is
a loose confederation of humanoid peoples. Among these are the Rabbit
People. Captain Star Runner made friends with a Rabbit Man named Salim
in her adventure *Sanctuary, National Novel Writing Month 2011*. I
operate as an investigator there with Jack Whitier.

I tell you all this to get you ready for this current adventure. 

