Chapter One (Ronnie)
--------------------

Author: I woulld write the account of this adventure with lovely
markers as to place, time and day but I have no idea what that would
look like. I can probably get the place right. Let's try that. This
is, after all, a first draft.

Space Transfer Point 724, Local Time: Evening
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Heracles pointed the  evaporator gun   right at my collar bone. I was
in no doubt he would shoot. I was definitely scared. In fact, I was
very scared. And then I thought to myself: Why be scared. You are
going to die. Your body will not be found. Someone might test for
particles, might notice an odor, but given the fact that we were in a
seedy part of the space transfer point, it was unlikely anyone would
investigate. By the time Captain Star Runner returned (if Captain Star
Runner ever returned), there would be no way to determine I was killed
here. Heracles would have plenty of opportunity to sanitize the area.

And then I grew calm. Given the imminent reality of my death and the
means of my death, I could put my focus elsewhere. I could talk to
heracles and see if I could talk him out of shooting me. That may seem
a strange thing to do in the final seconds of your life, but I made a
conscious decision not to spend my last seconds being afraid. I don't
like feeling afraid. It makes me feel weak, ineffectual and, frankly,
quite silly and juvenile.

So I straightened up and took a step  forward. Surprisingly, Heracles
still didn't shoot. I was waiting for the "Sorry I have to do this to
you, Ronnie" speech but it didn't come.

I said, "Heracles, you can't go on shooting people. I works for a
while. You can shoot yourself out of one situation and then another
and another, but at some point, this strategy won't work. Someone will
get to you before you get to them. Or someone will arrest you before
you can get them alone to evaporate them. Or worse, someone will get a
hold of you and do things to you which are very disagreeable or
painful or both. You are dealing with some very nasty forces and they
have no interest in you at all. You are nothing more than a pawn in
their galactic politics. They'll get tired of you and then poof!
You'll be gone and they will carry on with no more thoughts about
you."

It was, upon reflection, a very trite speech. The difficulty of
triteness is that it is often still true. The entities involved were
massive and Heracles was only a member of a minor noble family in a
dying empire. His death was of no importance to the powerful members
of Lystra and certainly of no importance to the other imperial
players.

I knew with this speech I was also indicating how unimportant I was,
but I hoped Heracles wouldn't notice that. I was important to him
because I knew what had already happened and how he was involved. I
also was getting a handle on the begiger picture. I was not at all
certain Heracles knew what that picture was. 

And that is what did it. He lowered the gun.

.. admonition:: NOTE TO SELF

          This probably should go in a later chapter. I need to leave
	  the reader with the evaporator gun pointing at Ronnie, but
	  I will leave it for now.


 



