Chapter Two (Ronnie)
--------------------

Half Moon Bay Space Station: Previously
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"Let me understand you." Captain Star Runner sat up on her pedestal in
the control center of her ride. "You want me to take you to Planet X?"

"That's right," I said.

"for what purpose?"

"I need to guard some people I will meet there.."

"Why?"

"The less I say about this case the better," I said.

Star twitched her tail. She was getting agitated.

"I don't like secrets," she said. "I share everything with you."

I sighed.

Star twitched her tail again.

I had not meant to sigh out loud.

"Privacy is not the same as keeping secrets," I said. 

How many times had I gone over this same ground with Star Runner?
Since her interface with the AI Christabel was a two-way exchange of
data, Star Runner could not understand withholding information from an
intimate. She expected our relationship to function on the same level
of exchange. She had purchased an information link which was
integrated into my nervous system. With this I could access the space
station wide network. I could also interface with Christabel. In this
way Star Runner expected me to interface with her. That I did not
fully trust Christabel with all my thoughts dumbfounded Star Runner.
She could not imagine nor had she ever lived without an AI sharing her
thought space. I found the whole concept repugnant. I want my own
self hood. I do not want to share my innermost thoughts and feelings
with two alien minds, the Fungus artificial intelligence Christabel
and the Pantheran engineered Star Runner. I do not want to share that
level of intimacy with any other human either. It is not a racial
preference on my part.

"This case has a lot of cloak and dagger about it," I said, regretting
my words as soon as I spoke them. Cloak and dagger would spark Star
Runner's interest for sure.

"Really?" Star's ears swiveled this way and that on top of her head as if she could hear
something I was not saying.

"Two archaeological students need guarding. I'm going to Planet X.. If
you go along, I can use the cover of going on holiday."

"To Planet x?" Star Runner was incredulous.

"There's a hotel on top of a mountain from what I understand. There's
a fanikula that runs up the side of the mountain to get there."

"The hotel is barely functioning."

Christabel inserted herself into
our conversation.I was annoyed. She was always there, always
listening, always making a record of what we said and what we did.
This was Star Runner's memory bank. 

Christabel said, "It would be a tough cover to maintain."

"It is all I have." I felt defeated. Planet X was where the students
had made some sort of discovery. I was hazy on the details. They
thought their discovery would upset certain powerful entities and one
of them had asked for protection. The request came to me. I needed
work so I had made the contract. Now it looked like Star Runner would
not help me and how would I get to Planet X.

"a vacation with you could be fun," Star Runner said.

"Vacation is a cover story," I expllained as patiently as I could. "It
doesn't mean it will actually be a vacation."

"But people will have to think we are on vacation," Star Runner
pointed out. "That means we will have a nice room and go to meals
together and do some fun things."

I was beginning to think Star was warming up to the idea. As for me,
I was thinking my initial idea was a bad one. Everyone in the primary
arm knew about genderless Pantherans. They did not go on vacations.



