Chapter Six: Down in the Valley
-------------------------------

Planet X: The next day
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		          Some way of denoting time is necessary. The
			  next day may not be sufficient.
			  Alternatively, I can delete any reference to
			  place and time and just go with chapter
			  numbers and names if possible.

To keep it simple, I will summarize what happened during the rest of evening.

1. The robot concierge confirmed that the two archeology students,
   Detective Ronnie Camberwell and I were the only ones registered at
   the Hotel Vista Incredible. The robot concierge additionally
   confirmed that we were the only living beings in the hotel.

2. This left Detective Ronnie Camberwell weighing the possibility that
   Heracles Beja had killed Suri Iglesia, but after questioning the living
   archeology student, Detective Ronnie Camberwell believed him when
   he said 	he had not killed Suri Iglesia. What reason, he asked
   reasonably, would he have to kill her. They had worked together for
   two standard years on their project. They were both concerned what
   their impact their findings would have on the archaeological
   community in the primary arm and had reached out for protection.
   They did not stand to profit either academically or financially from their research and their conclusions, so he would have no reason to eliminate a potential competitor.

3. The robot concierge also confirmed that no one else had come to
   the Hotel Vista Incredible during the last two standard years.

4. The robot concierge removed Suri Iglesia's body. It said it would be
   reserved indefinitely.

5. Detective Ronnie Camberwell decided Heracles Beja should move into
   our Vista Incredible suite. I could take up a guard position by the
   door to the gallery. To my way of thinking, this also meant that I
   was between Detective Ronnie Camberwell's sleeping chamber (That is
   what the Hotel Vista Incredible called it.) and Heracles Beja. I
   did not trust him as the exchange which follows shows.


"Heracles Beja had to have killed Suri Iglesia," I told Detective
   Ronnie Camberwell early the next morning. "He is the only one that
   could have done it."

"But it makes no sense for him to do that," Detective Ronnie
   Camberwell insisted.

"If you eliminate the impossible," I quoted, "Then you are left
   with the truth no matter how improbable it may seem." I was very
   proud to produce this quotation from Sherlock Holmes at the proper
   time.

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		             Check the accuracy of the quotation. It
			     does not sound exactly right.

"That's 			     fiction, Star. I believe
Heracles. There has to be something I'm missing here. Suri screamed.
Something frightened her before she died."

"Or Suri Iglesia was in pain."

I was pleased with myself for my contribution. I was convinced
Heracles Beja was the killer from the time I saw him kneeling over Suri
Nam's body. I did not know what his motivation was. It just was the
simplest explanation possible. That is Occam's razor. I had read about
that, too. I could not understand why Detective Ronnie Camberwell
could not see it.

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		If the first chapter tells of how Heracles is about to kill Ronnie, then it is no secret to the reader who killed Suri. Star Runner can narrate its convictions without spoiling the plot to that point. However, for the reader to believe Ronnie's refusal to believe that Heracles did it, she needs a plausible explanation for disbelief now and in the future.

		Ah! The oldest trick in the book, maybe literally. If Heracles is the one who is killed, then Ronnie can be taken in by Suri's vulnerability and attractiveness. The scream can be hers, made up to convince Ronnie of some mysterious stranger or thing that killed Heracles. She can weave a story about it that Ronnie believes but Star Runner does not.

		This has the advantage of creating tension between Ronnie and Star Runner, a convenient state of affairs to any reader of the story arc. These two are both attracted to one another and yet they are chronically attracted to others. Star does not like Suri Iglesia and does not trust her. Ronnie is sexually attracted to Suri Iglesia and struggles to be both professional and monogamous with Star Runner.  
		

Usually it is I who goes off believing things to be different than
they really are. I have made many mistakes of this kind though I have
ironclad explanations for why I was so badly misled in the first
place.  

"I still do not like it," I said.

"That is your prerogative." Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

I had to leave it there.

Planet X: The next day
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Suri Iglesia was adamant that we visit a particular ancient structure
on the valley floor. I was not eager to repeat our descent down the
mountain. Suri Iglesia said we would not take the funicular. There was
a maglif tram.

What she did not tell us was how we were to get to the tram.

A large basket lowered us down the sheer face of the cliff on which
Hotel Vista Incredible perched. My only comfort was knowing that if
one of the cables snapped, Suri Iglesia would also be killed. As a
Member of the Race, I am not bothered by heights and my genetic
engineering makes me indifferent to orientations in weightless
environments. Detective Ronnie Camberwell, on the other hand, clung
desperately onto the provided poles, huddling her large body on the
floor as she did so. Detective Ronnie Camberwell closed her eyes. So
much for providing protection during the long drop. As a result, she
missed the credible vistas. I believe the Hotel Vista Incredible
literature called these views bird's eye and referred to them as
spellbinding. I would not know. I have nothing to compare them to.  

After The Drop, we boarded a tram. For a long time we switchbacked
up and down the mountainsides until we reached a depot on the valley floor.

incredible. With no other living beings planet side, all this equipment
continued to be maintained. Suri Iglesia selected a wheeled vehicle
and we bounced along a roadway Suri Iglesia referred to as the River
Walk. I did not comment on the strangeness of riding in a vehicle on a
road called a walk.

"Do you see those mounds along the river?" Suri Iglesia asked, waving
her arm at no particular mound but taking in all of the area we
passed.

Detective Ronnie Camberwell replied in the affirmative.

"Heracles and I investigated a number of them. We believe there was a
raised walkway along the river. Pedestrians could go into many
structures along the way."

"Where they houses?"

"Possibly. We thought they might bee eating establishments or other
facilities that attended to travelers. We think the structures I am
taking you to may have been for worship. Pilgrims came here and needed
food, rest and recreation."

"What about the Hotel Vista Incredible?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell
asked.

"That may have been for more affluent visitors," Suri Iglesia said as
she swerved violently to avoid a pothole.

"But your room was tiny," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

"Agreed. Yours is much nicer. However, the People who stayed in those
cubbyholes could use the hotel's facilities and they only had to go to
the observation lounges to see the views. That's a small price to pay
for those views. Heracles and I speculated that there was some value
in the views themselves. Perhaps just looking out at the views
enhanced your virtue or gave you some special spiritual insights."

"Or maybe," Detective Ronnie Camberwell put in, "just having the gumption to go up that mountain
gave you spiritual credits."

"Could be." Suri Iglesia sounded noncommittal. Perhaps Detective Ronnie
Camberwell's remarks did not fit into Suri Iglesia's vision and
thereby was discounted. Suri Iglesia definitely liked to be in charge
and now there was no one to dispute with her opinions. I wondered how
long it would be before *Heracles and I* was replaced with *I*.

We stepped inside one of the stone structures on the other side of the
avenue from the slowly flowing river. It was cool and dark and smelled
occupied.

"This is where Heracles and I have been working," Suri Iglesia explained,
lighting the interior.

The room had a vaulted ceiling. The doorways leading from it were both
high and wide like the one we had entered.

"We speculate the people who built these structures were larger than
we are." Suri Iglesia continued her explanation. "It is commonly held that
these structures were some sort of religious shrines, possibly for the
dead or they were concerned with an after life. Other structures have vast
murals in very poor condition so we can't fully follow the story line." 


"All this has been documented for some time," I said, pulling
information from my mini AI which was being updated constantly by
Christabel. Christabel had been able to patch into communication
satellites that ringed the planet. Why Planet X had such a
sophisticated and state-of-the-art communication arrays was a mystery
to both of us. There was something going on here that was not obvious.

Suri Iglesia gave me a pitying look.

"That is what is said officially."

I waited for Suri Iglesia to enlighten us while Detective Ronnie
Camberwell kept looking around as if the explanation would walk
through one of the doorways.

"I made extensive tests of the paint on these figures." Suri Iglesia
pointed to a long line of figures walking along the avenue. They
looked very familiar to me but I could not quite remember. That is the
problem with the mini AI. It has tables of memories stored back on my
ride. I need to send a request to Christabel to access them and send
them back. There is a bit of a delay in this process. I am just
grateful it works at all. Without this methodology of retrieving my
memories, I would be knowing I knew something without actually knowing
it.


Then Christabel got back to me. The figures in the mural were
trollolu, a race that had not existed for twenty thousand years.

I marveled that Detective Ronnie Camberwell did not recognize the
reptilian race. We had seen pictures of them in the Prince Hat Star
System where my dear friend Tamara had been working
on an archaeological dig. In our adventure which I chronicled in
*Landscape of Thorns*, we learned the Trollolu were an ancient, now
extinct, race who had trained the Members of the Race, The Featherote
Charm and the Fungusian Network. They had been annihilated by a race
which called itself Followers of the Stars. The Followers of the Star
were contemporaries of the Empire of the Rainbow Sky, one of the
oldest races here in the Primary Arm. The Trollolu and the Followers
of the Stars lived in the western spiral arm where both Detective
Ronnie Camberwell and I came from. 

Bottom line: What were pictures of the Trollolu doing in this
structure?

Christabel cautioned me not to say anything. With a murderer in our
midst, knowledge could sign our death warrants. I kept silent. This is
something I am not usually good at, but protecting my own life and
that of Detective Ronnie Camberwell is genetically encoded in me. A
star runner is responsible for its crew when no other Member of the
Race is present.

I directed Christabel to block my ability to discuss the Trollolus
with Detective Ronnie Camberwell. This is a handy technique for
keeping confidential information secret. Genderless Members of the
Race make very good spies and couriers. The interrogator would have to
have the skills to redirect the AI. Built into the algorithm are the
directives for the AI to break the embargo on its own.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

         This circumstance will result in Ronnie not having a piece of
	 critical information later when she needs it. Christabel fails
	 to recognize Ronnie's need for it, too. This will reinforce
	 Ronnie's distrust of Christabel's attitude toward her. This
	 in turn will upset Captain Star Runner. it is not clear to me
	 at this juncture whether I need to resolve this ongoing
	 triangle to some state of equilibrium before the end of the novel.


 
i BECAME SO INVOLVED LOOKING AT THE trollolu THAT i FORGOT TO KEEP MY
ATTENTION FOCUSED ON detective Ronnie camber Bell and Suri Iglesia.
When I refocused on them, I saw their heads close together while Suri
Iglesia continued to talk with Detective Ronnie Camberwell. Their body
language had changed. I am still no expert at reading humanoid body
language, but it was clear to me that both women enjoyed the close
contact. Instinctively I puffed up. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was my
lover. How dare this interloper take liberties with Detective Ronnie
Camberwell. But as I watched and listened, my body regained its
natural dimensions and I felt as if it pulled into itself. Detective
Ronnie Camberwell liked Suri Iglesia's attentions and was drawing
closer to her. Unlike the humanoids, I could smell the fenestration in
the that each emitted. Suri Iglesia was not faking her attraction to
Detective Ronnie Camberwell. It was real.

I literally sat back on my haunches. This meant, if I understood
gendered humanoid interactions well enough, that any objection I would
raise to Detective Ronnie Camberwell about Suri Iglesia  would be
brushed away categorically.

Now I had three problems on my paws:

1. Suri Iglesia was a murderer. Murderers found it easy to kill again.

2. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was attracted to Suri Iglesia. Thus
   far, although Detective Ronnie Camberwell found humanoid females
   attractive and often engaged in sexual activities with them, she
   found it impossible to fully bond with them. Detective Ronnie
   Camberwell always came back to me. But would she do that this time?
   Could I stop Suri Iglesia from both steeling my lover and killing
   her in time?

3. How should I proceed? If I understood the course of humanoid
   attraction, I would increasingly be an inconvenience. More and more
   the two women would want to spend time alone. What should I do?

Christabel remained silent. This was a bit surprising. Even after
thinking this thought, Christabel did not comment. I could solicit her
input, of course, but I could also think about it by myself. The
relationship between Christabel and Detective Ronnie Camberwell was
complicated and often contentious. Christabel wanted to integrate
Detective Ronnie Camberwell's thoughts into Christabel's dataset.
Detective Ronnie Camberwell objected strongly to this integration,
wanting to keep her thoughts and feelings quite separate. 

Not for the first time I wondered if this integration disturbed
Detective Ronnie Camberwell because we are not species compatible. I
can exist because Christabel exists, that is, I am connected to an AI
which maintains my mental, physical and emotional health. I literally
would not stay alive if I was not connected to an AI to sustain me. I
cannot imagine living without an AI in my head. Detective Ronnie
Camberwell cannot imagine living with one inside her head.

We managed to function as a couple for long periods of time and then
it all fell apart. This had happened several times. We got together
again after each episode, but sitting in the stone structure on Planet
X, I wondered how many times we could play out that scenario before we
finally could not come together again. Would it be this time? Would it
be our decision or would Suri Iglesia make that decision for us?

"What do you want to do?" Christabel finally spoke.

"What do you mean?" I had been so immersed in my own thoughts that
Christabel startled me. That is hard to do.

"How do you want to proceed with Detective Ronnie Camberwell?"

"I do not understand the question," I finally said.

"You have options in any relationship. You could:

  a. Resist Suri Iglesia's advances either directly or indirectly.
  b. Walk away literally or figuratively.
You are a free agent here, Star Runner. You can do what you think is
right for you."

"So it is flight or fight," I said.

"More or less," Christabel agreed. "How much do you want Detective
Ronnie Camberwell to be your monogamous lover? You could keep her as a
friend. You could look after her well-being. Tamara is your friend and
is not your lover. The Czarina is your friend and not your lover."

I knew the list of former lovers could go on. Whether all of them were
still my friends is another question. Right now my focus was on
monogamy. If I am telling the truth here, and I try to tell the truth
in these adventures, I have not always been monogamous. Space journeys
are long. Detective Ronnie Camberwell has often objected to my
pornographic database for other genderless Members of the Race. It is
typically a subscription plan. We can sample scenarios that get played
out in our minds with hooks into our AIs for the physical components.
I make frequent use of it myself as well as playing out private
recordings of my interactions with Detective Ronnie Camberwell. She
finds these solitary reenactments creepy. This is because they are
stored in memory where Christabel is a part of them. I have pointed
out to Detective Ronnie Camberwell many times that there would be no
lovemaking at all if it were not for Christabel managing my pleasure
at what Detective Ronnie Camberwell was doing or pretending to do with
my body. I have no physical pleasure centers. It is all controlled via
my AI.

"I am the only AI Detective Ronnie Camberwell has ever known,"
Christabel observed. "I think it could be different if Detective
Ronnie Camberwell did not think of me as a person but as a computer
program without any personality."

I did not respond to this observation. I continued to watch and
therefore record the interaction of the two women. I also continued to
puzzle over the appearance of the Trollolu in the mural. I wondered
what other races I would find in other murals on other walls in other
structures. I determined to have a look at them if at all possible.
This would limit my ability to watch over Detective Ronnie Camberwell
if Suri Iglesia and Detective Ronnie Camberwell did not want to
accompany me.

"We need that information," Christabel announced. "I suspect that you
can suggest it and if they think you are not watching them too
closely, it will be a cover for them to continue to spend time
together without, they think, being too noticeable. Both races of
humanoid value monogamy. They may well see their growing relationship
as illicit."

I hoped so. This would mean Detective Ronnie Camberwell had not ended
our relationship.

"It is also dangerous," Christabel chided me. "illicit relationships
are conducted in secret. The need for obfuscation grows. Detective
Ronnie Camberwell may start lying to you to cover her time and
activities with Suri Iglesia. You need to be prepared for this."

This really meant Christabel would be stepping up her boo management.
I needed to make some decisions about how Christabel did this. If I
gave my AI no instructions, her directives remained to keep me in top
physical, mental and emotional health. This could even mean
reorganizing my memories. I could lose my desire to be in a
relationship with Detective Ronnie Camberwell if Christabel thought it
would be a healthier option for me.

My confusion at this juncture made it impossible for me to modify
those directives.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

        Captain Star Runner's ambivalence here will have an impact
	from this point forward on its decision-making process.
	Captain Star Runner has failed to give Christabel a definitive
	instruction to maintain its desire to stay committed to
	Detective Ronnie Camberwell. Christabel's overriding directive
	is the health and well-being of her charge. Given the
	enhancements the People of the Rainbow Sky did to their
	systems in *Sanctuary*, their bond has been strengthened and
	Christabel is more protective than ever. No attempt was made
	in the upgrade and the maintenance done by the Fungusian
	network to give Christabel any understanding of the nature of
	a paired relationship. Any ongoing relationship with its ups
	and downs threatens Captain Star Runner's equilibrium and
	therefore requires Christabel to make corrections and
	interventions.

 

I refocused on the women's conversation.

"The accepted historical arc is that a race of humanoids controlled
this planet," Suri Iglesia was saying, "and built these structures
and everything you can see along the River Walk. They were advanced.
We can see that in the hotel and with their communications systems."

"Where are they now?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked.

"They left for some reason." Suri Iglesia did not seem overly
interested in the question. "What my research shows is that they
weren't the first people on this planet." She pointed to the Trollolu.
"These must have been the original people here on the planet who built
these structures."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell looked at the blurred representations of
the Trollolu. Apparently she did not recognize them. Christabel
advised me that she had superimposed all of the figure outlines to
demonstrate that what these individual paintings had originally shown
were a line of Trollolu. I studied the mural again. What was happening
here?

"I've never seen anything like these people," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell was saying. "They look ugly to me."

In a superior tone Suri Iglesia said, "They don't appear to be
humanoid. I suppose that is why you think hey are ugly. For all we
know, this might have been a beauty pageant."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell shook her head. Then she turned to me.

"Captain Star Runner,   what do you think?"

What could I say? I had stopped Christabel from allowing me to
say,"Those are Trollolu. Do not you recognize them?" But there was
something I could say, was not there?

"Are there any other kind of figures?" I asked. It was always better
to answer a question with a question.

"Why would there be any other kind of figures?" Suri Iglesia dismissed
my question out of hand as if I was particularly stupid.

Detective Ronnie Camberwell, on the other hand, took my question
seriously. "What do you mean, other figures, Captain Star Runner?"

The use of my honorific could mean two entirely different things  1.
Detective Ronnie Camberwell was distancing herself from me and being
more formal.
  2. Detective Ronnie Camberwell had heard  Suri Iglesia's slight and
     was reminding Suri Iglesia that I was not some stupid animal but
     an intelligent and competent alien.

I said, "There are many races in the Primary Arm. I just wondered who
else these aliens might have known."

Although she was an archaeologist, Suri Iglesia demonstrated her
narrowest of vision with her next observation. "The Empire of the
People of the Rainbow Sky and the Lystran Empire are the oldest races.
No doubt these were some aliens from long ago. It really doesn't
matter. What matters is the age of this structure. It must have been
built by either empire. I intend to find out which."

The Trollolu were an ancient people. The Followers of the Stars were
an even more ancient people. The Members of the Race, the Fungusian
Network and the Featherote Charm are also ancient. Terries are a
fairly new race. The Rabbit People and those who came from the planet
where I was incarcerated in Sanctuary XI are recent races. I did not
know the proveniences of the races that made up the Space Traders
Guild. All these different people and Suri Iglesia could only think of
two possibilities.

I checked my records. Yes, Suri Iglesia was Lystran. I suspected her
final determination would have a lot to do with whether or not she
wanted to claim these structures as part of her own heritage or not.
The fact that they had been abandoned might mitigate against her
claiming them.

The question for me in this matter was, Who maintained this planet?
That might go along way to answering all the questions about who
really built this place and why there was a cover up.
