|Chapter 8: Explorations
-----------------------

Captain Star Runner Narrates
~~~

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                 I am still struggling with narrator voice. When
		 Captain Star Runner narrates in the first person, the
		 narration is quirky with lots of asides and Captain
		 Star Runner's opinions and assumptions on many
		 topics. The first person allows Captain Star Runner
		 to simply be. The pronouns do not get in the way.
		 Captain Star Runner is simply the "I" of the story.
		 In the third person, "it" would sound strange.
		 Perhaps this would heighten Captain Star Runner's
		 alien self, but Captain Star Runner is not intended
		 to be an alien character, but a lovable character who
		 happens to be an alien.

                 Detective Ronnie Camberwell is a different matter.
		 When she narrates in the first person, it is clear
		 that she is telling the story after the fact. These
		 are not diary entries as they appear here in the
		 first draft. Diary entries are a possibility going
		 forward and as a rewrite. She would be having a
		 conversation with herself in the present of the
		 story.

                 Alternatively, Ronnie's sections could be rewritten
		 and written going forward in the third person. It
		 would again be real time for the character. We could
		 be inside her head, seeing what she sees, knowing
		 only what she knows. 

                 This viewpoint and the omniscient narrator viewpoint
		 have the same problem: Where does this information
		 come from? How does Captain Star Runner have access
		 to it as Captain Star Runner puts together the
		 adventure?

                 On the other hand, diary entries would give that
		 sense of first person narration in real time but,
		 from a practical point of view,  they would be
		 gathered after the fact. Practically speaking again,
		 this means Ronnie trusts Captain Star Runner with
		 them or Captain Star Runner has appropriated them
		 without Ronnie's consent. Both scenarios are
		 consistent with Captain Star Runner's behavior.

                 It is still not clear to me if this story will end
		 with Captain ST Star Runner and Ronnie's relationship
		 back on an even Kiel. If it is not, the explanation
		 of Ronnie's diary entries appearing in the adventure
		 text needs to be explained--at least to me.
		 Presumably this narration is one that Captain Star
		 Runner put together and published. Later Ronnie
		 inserted her diary entries. Why would she do this?

                 This may sound like a pointless excursus into
		 motivations and explanations which really do not
		 matter since this is fiction after all. But a
		 reader's suspension of disbelief only goes so far and
		 it is reasonable for the reader to ask: How is this
		 narration possible? How did all these dis disparate
		 pieces of the story come together. Either some
		 unnamed editor did it or the character themselves did
		 it. Captain Star Runner maintains that it alone
		 creates these adventures. They are self published.
		 Therefore, Captain Star Runner needs access to all
		 the materials in them.

                 In   the three Nanowrimo novels I have written that I
		 have subtitled Ronnie Camberwell Adventures, two of
		 them are first person narratives. The third one, the
		 latest novel I've written, the narration is mixed
		 because the story lagged with first person narrative.
		 Ronnie could not have known some things that were
		 necessary.

                 The same situation exists here.Either I have not
		 conceived of these tales well from the outset or I am
		 growing as a writer, having wider vision of the
		 adventure.

                 For now, I will try the diary entry approach and see
    		where that gets me.Explorations is a good title for
  		this thought experiment and this chapter.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                  I need a clause in the contract that Ronnie has with
		  Suri Iglesia's family. She is to wait and turn
		  responsibility for the students over to a trusted
		  Lystran spaceship captain. That means Ronnie is
		  waiting on Planet X for this captain to arrive. Now
		  that Heracles Beja is dead, Suri Iglesia is anxious
		  to leave Planet X with her data before someone
		  steals it or refutes it. Ronnie will be blindsided
		  by Suri's decision to leave the planet with Heracles
		  Beja's murder still unresolved. Suri will use this
		  ambiguity to justify her decision not to wait for
		  the scheduled ride.

There were some living quarters nearby the old structures. Suri
Iglesia had not told us we were staying down in the valley overnight.
There was a rough sort of dinner. Detective Ronnie Camberwell put and
Suri Iglesia put their clothes in the refresher. They wore loose
garments stored in the facility for just this purpose.

After they were asleep I decided to go exploring. I could not judge
how safe Detective Ronnie Camberwell was. I hoped both women would
just sleep while I was out prowling.

Our old stories say that Members of the Race hunted at dusk and dawn.
We see very well then. We are also creatures of the night. Although I
am born and bred to be in space, I find adjusting to planet night is
not all that difficult. I have all the instinctual moves for stalking
and skulking. I just do not do it with finesse.    
 
I first went to the structure we had previously entered. I wanted to
know what lay behind those doorways. Sadly, the corridors were clogged
with debris. I wondered if Suri Iglesia and Heracles Beja were
required to remove a substantial amount of debris before they could
enter the structure. If that were the case, I could not reconnoiter
other structures.

I worked my way along the avenue, retracing our route from the tram
roundhouse. Doorways were blocked. Roofs were caved in. I was about to
give up and return to the dormitory when I could finally stand inside
a structure.

I looked about the room. It appeared to be identical to the one Suri
Iglesia and Heracles Beja had tested in shape. The same number of
doorways led from the entrance room.

Little light came into the room. I removed my torch from my foreleg
pouch and switched it on. Set on its lowest illumination setting, I
swept the room.  my torch picked up colors on the wall. Slowly I
increased the illumination until I could get a clear scan.

I did not need for Christabel to interpret what I saw. I recognize
Members of the Race when I see them. This mural was in much better
condition than the Trollolu mural. Suri Iglesia and Heracles must have
chosen the structure they tested because of its proximity to the
dormitory.

  
During the day, Suri Iglesia ran tests. Detective Ronnie Camberwell
stayed close to her, hanging on every word, every look. I napped
nearby.

I went out every evening, checking more structures. I found a mural of
the Featherote and several containing figures neither Christabel nor I
could identify. I played the ones in good condition over and over
again in my visual display. What did they represent? Why was there a
different mural in each structure? What were these structures for?

I have never understood my best friend Tamara's fascination for
archeology. Tamara goes to places where she works physically hard in
difficult conditions. Tamara says it is because the past intrigues
her. She says there is so much history we have lost. Tamara wants to
reclaim that history. It would seem there is a lot of history that has
been lost here, too. I wonder if it is important.

On the last evening in the valley, Detective Ronnie Camberwell was
waiting outside of the dormitory when I returned.

"Where were you?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked.

"Prowling around," I said. I did not feel much like answering
Detective Ronnie Camberwell. She had basically ignored me since we
arrived on Planet X. This was supposed to be a time when we would
spend time together. I said as much.

"You are confusing our cover story with my job," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said.

"You seem to be infatuated with Suri Iglesia," I said.

"I need to stay with her. Someone murdered her partner."

"Probably Suri Iglesia herself." I said.

"Let's not get into that again. I told you. She couldn't have done
it."

We stood facing each other in a tense silence. I wonder now if I should
have told Detective Ronnie Camberwell how important she was to me.
Maybe I should have embraced her, kissed her, twisted myself around
her. I did none of these things. Part of my genderless engineering
causes me to reflexively defer to a gendered being. I have to
consciously work to overcome that preprogrammed behavior. I can do it
readily in business negotiations. I am far less likely to do it in
personal interactions. I am no good at it at all in romantic settings.
I have no instincts at all in this regard. They have been removed.

The genetic engineers meant this to be a mercy. Genderless Members of
the Race have no sexual attractions to other Members of the Race. We
do not physically desire anyone else. As a result, I was not
predisposed to fight for my position as Detective Ronnie Camberwell's
lover. I simply acquiesced.

"Five more days until the spaceship comes," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell finally said.

Good. Detective Ronnie Camberwell would not pursue her questions about
where I had been. I did not want to share my still nebulous ideas
about this place.

I said, "I am going to prowl around just a little bit more."

I started to walk away.

"Can I come with you?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked.

My heart started beating a little faster. Maybe Detective Ronnie
Camberwell wanted to be with me after all.

Then Detective Ronnie Camberwell said, "I just can't sleep tonight."

I said, "I will need to go back to my ride soon."

"Why? You're not leaving, are you?"

"No," i said. "The mini AI can only maintain my boo-systems for so
long. I need Christabel to realign everything."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell said, "Then you'll come back."

"Yes," I said, "if you want me to."

"Of course I want you to."

I became filled with joy.

"I don't want to be marooned here on this planet. It gives me the
creeps. Besides, the contract states I need to see Suri onto the
spaceship and then I'm free to leave. Passage on the spaceship is not
included in the contract."

Just as quickly I  felt very disappointed. I was only the backup plan.

We walked more in silence.

"Is there something wrong, Star?"

The question was absurd. I did not laugh. Members of the Race rarely
laugh. Terries think my laugh is quite hilarious. 

"No," I said. "There is nothing wrong."

We walked a little farther.

"I'm getting cold," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I think I'll go
back."

We had just passed a structure which looked fairly in tact.

"I want to stop here and look inside," I said.

"If you wish. I'll start back," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

Should I have asked her to look inside with me? Would that have
changed anything? I do not know. Perhaps. Perhaps not.

The structure was almost perfect. A few stones had fallen from the
ceiling. I played my torch over the mural. And there they were:
figures that looked just like Prince Hat. According to the Terries,
these beings looked like great white bears. They were quite big. They
were the race that had fostered the growth of the Featherote, the
Fungusians, the Members of the Race and, yes, the Trollolu.
Apparently, they had fostered other unfamiliar races. I saw them in
this mural walking with all the figures I had seen before in all the
other structures. I walked through one of the doorways. My torchlight
picked out shiny circles and squares. They reminded me of the crystals
that contained lectures by the Trollolu. I had the DNA to unlock
those. Touching these did nothing. They either were not the same or
they did not respond to my touch. If they were the same sort of
device, these structures might have been schools or museums or some
other place for recording information or teaching it. Maybe this was a
library.

Feeling I had accomplished something, I returned to the dormitory. If
Detective Ronnie Camberwell was awake, she did not say anything.
