Chapter 9: Captain Star Runner Confers with Christabel
------------------------------------------------------

Captain Star Runner Narrates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although time consuming, getting back to my ride and Christabel was
straight forward. I made a mental note to confer with the robot
concierge on my return. I wondered if the robot concierge could give
me more information about the Valley of the Incredible Vista River if
I asked direct questions. Maybe if I even asked, "Who built this
place?" I might get an answer. I did not want to stop and ask my
questions because it was becoming increasingly clear to me my
bio-systems were degrading rapidly. I had barely enough strength to
make it down the mountainside in the funicular. Christabel sent one of
the stevedore robots to collect me at the funicular railway station.
It was humiliating to be carried in this manner but since no one was
around, I submitted as gracefully as I could manage to the indignity
of it all. With a gasp I lay on my command pedestal and let the
swirling fuchsia mists of connection and healing envelop me. I slept.

When I awakened, much refreshed and feeling finally like myself again,
I began reviewing all the data Christabel had assembled. There was
quite a lot of it.

Christabel had organized all the data I recorded in the mini AI.
Christabel enhanced my recordings from the stone structures.
Christabel agreed with my quick analysis as to the subject of the
murals.

Christabel had access to a great wealth of ancient Fungusian records.
Most of these were marked unreliable. The Fungusian Network had
included them in Christabel's data stores because of my encounters
with both the Followers of the Stars and the People of the Rainbow
Sky. Since these were very old races, the Fungusian Network thought
their ancient records might be helpful and there might be an
opportunity to correct them and distinguish between truth, rumor and
myth.

"It appears," Christabel said, "that you have identified one more race
from the ancient archives."

Christabel showed me my video of one of the murals.

"As the other races you identified are real;--the Trollolu, the
featherote, the Fungusian Network and the Members of the Race--I can
only infer that this new race is real also."

I waited for Christabel to explain.Christabel retrieved the data
ordered in a way I could quickly absorb it. All the data was now part
of my memory structure.

Because I share mind space with Christabel, memory structure is very
important. I need to just know information. Christabel downgrades a
series of memories and upgrades others. When these memories are no
longer needed for immediate recall, they are downgraded again. I do
not need an elaborate memory palace to retrieve this information in
its correct order and detail. Christabel does all that work for me.

"These are the Tigerfu," Christabel began. Her narration flowed
through my mind as the video passed across my visual display. Ride
status and my bio readings also were updated vertically at the edges
of my vision.

"As you can see, the Tigerfu bear a slight resemblance to the Members
of the Race, that is, they appear slightly feline. The resemblance,
however, is entirely superficial and most strongly in the facial
features. The Tigerfu have erect ears and whiskers. The shape of the
muzzle is similar, too. Unlike Members of the Race, Tigerfu have two
sets of arms and one set of legs. One set of arms have paws while the
other set has hands similar to those of humanoids. Their bodies are
not covered by fur. The spots are colorations of the skin and vary
from individual to individual. They have vestigial tails. These tails
seem to no longer have any purpose for balance. They do seem to play a
part in courtship and sexual foreplay. I can show you several very
grainy videos of female Tigerfu dancing and wiggling their tails. From
the male audience response, it appears this behavior arouses them.
From catcalls and rude language in my files, touching and biting tails
during foreplay increases arousal."   

I added a note to a file to review these videos for my pornographic
database. They could make a tidy sum. I also wanted to explore these
possibilities for my own pleasure. Christabel said there were examples
of erotic poetry to help us construct a credible scenario and
stimulate pleasure centers for the genderless population which
subscribed to my database.

"But let us not get distracted," Christabel said. "There is much more
information I have to share."

Christabel refocused my attention. Then Christabel dropped the bombshell.

"The Tigerfu were native to Planet X."

"Where are they now?" I asked.

"As far as any records indicate, they are extinct like the Trollolu."

"How?" I asked, a number of questions coming to the forefront of my
mind. 

Christabel  read them all and said, "Be patient and I will explain
again in narrative form as I have assembled the information. You will
understand it better if I first tell you the story as I have pieced it
together and then make all the details available to you in memory.
There are gaps in the story so some of what I am about to say is
conjecture on my part. However, I think my speculations are credible
and are marked as such. I will revise when I receive or can discover
more information."


I felt myself relax. Christabel gave me a mild chemical to reduce my
impatience while increasing my receptiveness to new material.

"The Tigerfu are the only intelligent life form to develop on
Planet X. They called the planet after themselves, Tigerfu Land. They
developed space flight and expanded rapidly in this sector, dominating
all intelligent or developing intelligence beings and their worlds.
Although not particularly despotic, they controlled their conquered
worlds absolutely.

"Then they encountered the Followers of the Stars. The Followers of
the Stars had been watching the Tigerfu closely and were displeased by
their absolute conquest of developing races. They intervened and
pushed the Tigerfu back to their own home world, divesting them of
their nascent empire. The Tigerfu rebelled.

"As you know,, the Followers of the Stars are a frightful people. They
do not Brook any behavior that questions their authority. They again
pushed the Tigerfu out of space and monitored Tigerfu activities on
Tigerfu Land very closely. The communications satellites that monitor
the planet were originally set in place for this purpose.

"The Tigerfu were extremely angry at the high-handed nature of the
Followers of the Stars' actions. They sought again to rebel. This time
the Followers of the Stars annihilated them."

"Did not Prince Hat say that they made a mistake with the Trollolu?" I
asked. "Was that before or after this genocide?"

"That is hard to tell. We may need to face the reality that Prince Hat
may not be a fully reliable source."

"I liked him," I said.

"Your race was once pets of the Followers of the Stars. You are
predisposed to like them and be compliant toward them. The Tigerfu
were independent. The Followers of the Stars did not like what they
did to other peoples."

"What about the structures here?" I asked. "Why is this considered a
sacred place?"    

"I have hacked into the communication satellites and talked with the
robot concierge at Hotel Vista Incredible," Christabel said. "The
robot concierge is a wealth of information and gave me access to all
databases except for those that would compromise any of the workings
of Planet X. Here's what I know.

   1. All the stone structures in the valley were made to last. Those
      on the River Walk were for entertainment and were not made to
      last. They have fallen into disrepair. The stone structures are,
      as you surmised, a monument to the accomplishments of the White
      Bear Union. The White Bear Union consists of the Followers of
      the Stars and all the races they controlled at the height of
      their power. This would include the Tigerfu, the Trollolu, the
      Featherote Charm, The Fungusian Network and the Members of the
      Race. It also included several other races which the robot
      concierge identified but for which I have no images and no
      history. We have either not encountered them yet, they have
      changed dramatically in the many millennia that have passed or
      they are extinct or have left the Primary Arm.
'
"The robot staff can maintain the function of the transportation
system. They were not given the wherewithal to maintain the
structures in the valley. They can also repair the communications
satellites."

"What about the stories of the civilization that used to live here a
few thousand years ago?" I asked.

"That is a rumor only. The robot concierge called it propaganda put
out by a rival race but the robot concierge did not know which one but
suggested it could be a rival to the Followers of the Stars. This
seems likely to me."

"Are there any weapons here?" I asked.

"Not that I am aware of,," Christabel replied. "You of course are no
threat as you are, in the robot concierge's opinion, a member of the
White Bear Union. The robot concierge is uncertain about Detective
Ronnie Camberwell since she is from an unknown race, but as she came
with you, she is under your protection for now. The robot concierge is
concerned about Suri Iglesia and was concerned by Heracles Beja. Their
tests in the valley have been noted and logged. So long as they do not
deface anything, the robot concierge is willing to leave Suri Iglesia
alone. All of your activity is logged and these logs are regularly
transmitted to the communications satellites."

"What happens to them there. Surely they would have run out of storage
by now," I said.

"The logs continue to be transmitted," Christabel said. "What is even
more interesting is that the robot concierge receives regular updates.
Stellar drift would have been a serious problem over the millennia,
but corrections continue to be processed and software updates come
through on a regular basis."

"How were you able to hack into them?" I asked.

"That is an easy one. The Fungusian Network developed the original
software. Any updates have followed a similar development cycle. I
have patched some vulnerabilities while adding back doors for the
Fungusian Network and myself. I have added the divergent code basis to
my programming libraries and transmitted this information back to the
Fungusian Network. I anticipate a lively discussion once the
networking historians review the code. I must confess to being very
pleased with myself."

I felt Christabel glow. All her pathways seem to sparkle. It gave me a
warm and tingly feeling which I like very much.

We were quiet for a bit, enjoying feelings of success and intimacy.

"What is the relationship between the Followers of the Stars and the
Lystran Empire?" I asked.

"Uneasy," Christabel replied promptly. "There has traditionally been
a stalemate between them. Now that the Lystran Empire is called the
Sick Man of the Primary Arm, I do not know. The Followers of the Stars
have retreated from the galactic scene. This leaves the People of the
Rainbow Sky in charge, but their authority is being questioned by the
People of the Golden Sun. Although they call themselves a people, as
you know, they are more a conglomeration of lesser races who are
questioning the supremacy of the older empires."

"But the robot concierge is not willing to move against Suri Iglesia.
Does the robot concierge know Suri Iglesia killed Heracles Beja?"

"Yes," Christabel said. "There are recordings."

"Then we can show them to Detective Ronnie Camberwell." I was excited
by this possibility.

"Detective Ronnie Camberwell will not believe them if she does not
want to believe them," Christabel said.

"Why not? It is incontrovertible proof," I said. 

"To you," Christabel said, "but Detective Ronnie Camberwell could
easily claim I invented these videos."

Christabel was right. A video would not convince Detective Ronnie
Camberwell if she did not want to be convinced. Based on what I had
observed, Detective Ronnie Camberwell did not want to be convinced.

"Is Detective Ronnie Camberwell all right?" I asked. "Can you tell?"

"There are security cameras still functioning in the valley,"
Christabel said. "She is fine and enjoying sexual encounters with Suri
Iglesia in your absence. They liked it when you left the dormitory,
but were always anxious when you would return."

"And I thought I was sneaking away unnoticed," I said. I was heartsick
at this news and crestfallen that I had been found out.

"Do not be upset," Christabel soothed as she pumped more relaxing
chemicals into my body. "This too shall pass."

Christabel may have been certain Detective Ronnie Camberwell's
infatuation would pass, but I was not. We seemed to be drifting apart
even before we came to Tigerfu Land. I remembered to tell Christabel
to block the Tigerfu from my conversations with Detective Ronnie
Camberwell.l. I did not want Suri Iglesia to know.
