Chapter Twelve: Visitors Come Aboard Captain Star Runner's Ride
---------------------------------------------------------------

Ronnie Narrates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Life aboard the ride fell into a soul-chilling pattern. I made myself
dress every day. I ate regular meals. I exercised. I tried to find
something meaningful to do. There was very little meaningful work for
me to do since the ride bots maintained the spaceship. Captain Star
Runner moved about the ride from time to time but avoided me whenever
possible. We spoke hardly at all. Whatever head games Star and
Christabel played, I was not invited to share in them.

One of the rules of our confinement was that we could not leave the
ride. If we did, we could not get aboard it again. If I left to wander
the Transfer Point, I could not resume my place aboard it.
Effectively, I believed, I would never get back to Half Moon Bay Space
Station. I did not think I could survive that. If other Lystrans were
like Suri Iglesia, they would be insufferable and I would be a second
class person at best and possibly even lower on the social strata. I
had no idea if I could find work and how I could support myself. At
least aboard Captain Star Runner's ride, I was free to move about and
there was no lack of food, comfortable shelter and, for that matter,
air. There was an air tax on Half Moon Bay Station. Failure to pay it
was a serious offense. People went into servitude if they could not
pay their air tax. From what I had heard, it was virtually impossible
to get out of servitude once you were in it. People in servitude were,
for all intents and purposes, enslaved for life.

Given all these circumstances, i was surprised the morning I got up
late, dressed sloppily and opened my stateroom door to hear the sound
of humanoid laughter coming down the corridor from the control center.
I listened for a little while. I heard Star's voice and another
non-humanoid speaker. This was a live conversation. These new speakers
were not Lystrans.

I pulled myself together to be more presentable and walked tentatively
toward the control center, pausing uncertainly in the doorway.

Sitting on the edge of Captain Star Runner's command pedestal was a
who looked to be around my age and a rather large white rabbit.

"Hello," the woman said, jumping up. "I am Pru Dillow. You must be
Detective Ronnie Camberwell."

"Yes," I said rather stupidly. Her vivacity took me aback. I was slow
to put out my hand to her. I must appear either dim-witted or very
stand-offish. I would like to think I am neither.

"I am Salim," the rabbit said. He neither moved nor put out a paw.

Of course. These were Captain Star Runner's companions in Sanctuary
Eleven. Star had told me about them. 

"I am pleased to meet you both," I said, remaining in the doorway. Pru
Dillow had returned to her seat.

"Are you stuck here on Transfer Point Eleven, too?" I asked. I had to
say something and *Captain Star Runner has told me all about you* did
not seem appropriate given our strained relationship. I wondered what
Star had told them  if anything. Why should I think I was uppermost in
Star Runner's mind the way she was uppermost in mine.

"More or less," Pru Dillow said.

"Then how are you able to come aboard?" I asked. "we were told we could not
  

leave this 'ride' (I used Star Runner's designation at the last
second) without losing the ability to come aboard again."

"That's\\ is because you are the operators of this vessel," Salim
explained in his nasal basic speech. His large teeth made the words
come out as if they were accented but they were not. His basic was
flawless. "Our vessel is owned by a corporation back on a Merchant
world. Pru and I own the corporation, but its registration is not in
our names."

I was startled. I did not think I was listed as an owner of Captain
Star Runner's ride. In fact, I was sure of that fact. How had I been
lumped into her category?

Christabel answered my question, "Although you are not listed as an
owner, Ronnie, your status is uncertain because your race is not from
this galactic arm. As a result, you have been given the status of a
highly suspicious character. The authorities cannot tell what side you
are on."

I wanted to blurt out that I was on my own side and I did not care at
all about their war. I just wanted to get back to my job and my little
cubbyhole on Half Moon Bay Station that I was coming to think of as
home. If the truth be known, I really wanted to go back to Ptolemy
City on Hypatia in the Pharaoh Star System. It was only through my
association with Captain Star Runner and his friends on the Northern
Frontier that I had left there in the first place. I should really
check and see if I could go back there when I got out of here,
whenever that would be.

"So you can leave any time you want?" I asked, wondering if this pair
was my means of escape.

"No, not at all," Pru Dillow said. "We are stuck, too, because we want
to go into territory controlled by the People of the Rainbow Sky. They
are traditional rivals of Lystra."

I held my head.

"All this political maneuvering is making my head ache," I said. "I
come from an area of space in the western spiral arm that is, by
design, apolitical and free to all comers if they abide by the unrule
of law. We have our own sensibilities and you can do pretty much as
you please if you stick to only a couple of rules. After that, you are
just on your own."

"Your League of Hypatian Pirates has always interested us," Salim
said. "If the situation was different, we might even think about
visiting there. Of course I need to stay near Merchant worlds. We lost
our homeland and we are trying to build ourselves up. That means every
Rabbit person must stay involved."

"How is that going?" I asked for something to say.

"Pretty well," Salim said. "We have reached a critical mass so the
future of the Merchant race seems pretty well established. In another
seven generations we will have reached stability on three worlds with
only five more to go. We have been very fortunate. At first we thought
all was lost when our home world was destroyed, but we had enough
Merchant ships out of the star system with enough productive adults to
build up our numbers. The litters have been large and the survival
rate has been very good. Many of the females have nursed extra kits so
there have been no runt problems. We have found ways to have these
runts thrive. It used to be thought they were inferior, but it turns
out through careful nurturing they do very well."

I did not know what to say. This sounded more like dog breeding than
the proper venue for societal stability. Well, Salim was an alien.
Their values were different.

"we were just discussing the war when you came in," Pru Dillow said.

I was not certain of her status. I knew she and Salim had had a
relationship of sorts. I wondered if Salim had felt it necessary to
contribute to the population explosion of his kind. Did that mean he
had a wife or did the Rabbit people just mate and then go about their
lives. I could have found out, but I decided I did not need to know at
this point. If that changed, I would inquire.

"I scan headlines," I said, "but I do not know how accurate the local
information is."

"As it turns out," Pru Dillow said (Did she just go by Pru or was Pru
Dillow her name. It was hard to know with Captain Star Runner's
propensity for using someone's entire name and honorific in
conversational speech.), "the local propaganda is mostly wrong."

"how do you know that?" I asked.

"We always talk to people from the outside when we can," Salim
explained. "They have the latest news. They are not always right, of
course, but we have gotten the general impression that Lystra continues
to lose worlds to the People of the Golden Sun. The message the local
populations are given convinces them to revolt and once they have
ousted their Lystran overlords, they find out differently. They have
traded inefficiency and neglect for outright domination and theft of
the planet's resources. The Lystrans are corrupt but they do not
typically strip a world of all of its resources leaving the people on
the edge of famine and societal collapse."

I shivered. These sounded like very nasty people.

"Who will stop them?" I asked. "Don't the worlds know how ruthless
these people are?"

"Oh\f course they know," Pru Dillow said. "But their choice is
capitulation or annihilation. There are examples of annihilation
throughout the primary arm. The worlds except enslavement to preserve
themselves. Lystra cannot stand against these marauders."

"So if I have this right," I said, "The People of the Golden Sun are
continuing to subsume the Lystran Empire. How close are they to
Transfer Point Seventeen?"

"We are fairly far away." Captain Star Runner spoke for the first
time. She had been washing her face, a very painstaking process which
included smoothing her luxurious whiskers. In Pantheran parlances,
Captain Star Runner had very beautiful whiskers. The beauty experts
would say that the beauty of Star Runner's face was marred by the
white star on her forehead. Pantherans preferred a solid-colored
specimen. Star, on the other hand, had the white star, four white paws
and a white-tipped tail. The white on her tail was especially frowned
upon. I had checked once. Fuchsia-colored Pantherans are extremely
rare. All known fuchsia-colored Pantherans over many millennia looked
exactly like Star Runner.

"I do not think we are in any immediate danger. It is a situation that
needs to be watched very carefully. I have no desire to come into
contact with anyone from the People of the Golden Sun."

"But the Lystran empire will fall eventually?" I said, putting a
question mark at the end of my sentence to ensure a response.

"That is uncertain," Star Runner said. "For a long time, there was a
balance of power here in the Primary Arm. That balance has been upset.
The People of the Golden Sun have conquered a lot of worlds in a
fairly short, galactically-speaking, length of time. It remains to be
seen if they can manage their conquests or if the conquered worlds
will rebel and be successful. It also remains to be seen if the older
empires and long-established cooperative will decide to stop the
People of the Golden Sun. I participated in such a military action. It
was decisive."

"We just do not know if these larger groups have the will to do it,"
Salim said. I was not sure, but I thought I detected some bitterness
in his tone. "The Lystran empire's corruption and depravity is
legendary. The People of the Rainbow Sky have also been very inwardly
focused for many millenia. It remains to be seen if they have the
general good of the primary arm still in view. They may simply protect
their own space and not worry about the rest."

Captain Star Runner swished her tail, twitched her ears and resettled
herself.. What was she not saying. Surely there was more to this
situation, but I did not know the questions to ask. Had I asked them,,
things might have been different.

.. ADMONITION:: TWIST

                 If there was not a block, Captain Star Runner could
		 have shared with its friends about the Tigerfu and
		 the Followers of the Stars. Because of the block,
		 this information was withheld. I need to figure out
		 how this becomes a critical flaw in the story and
		 what consequences occur because of it.


  
