












Chapter Sixteen: Man About Town
-------------------------------

I did not know what to expect. I got some basic information and set
about being a man from a backward planet in the Lystran Empire. That
was not really as hard to do as I had originally thought it might be.
Most of the young men in the dormitories were just like me--the
undercover me. They came from villages on poor planets. They came to a
transfer point hoping for better employment and a way to send money
back home. Or they came looking to escape their pasts. They found
themselves in low-paying jobs, owing money to the controlling families
which kept them  
indentured with no way of redeeming themselves. They lived in cramped,
drafty dormitories, eating poor food with no medical care. If they
were too sick to work for too long, they lost their space in the
dormitory. They lost their food card. They turned into criminals,
living in the bowels of the transfer point. Or they committed suicide,
too ashamed to beg or steal. The controlling families, with a war on,
found many recruits for the military. Although their servitude was not
reduced, the pay and living conditions were said to be better. They
signed up and shipped out. The controlling families called them cannon
fodder. I wondered how many of them would survive the war no matter
who won it. All in all it was a depressing business. I was cold and
tired much of the time. My work was menial. My questions were met
with disinterest and grunts. I could find no one who had ever heard of
either man. After a while, I began to think they had never existed.

One day when I was sitting at a filthy table choking down a watery
bowl of vegetable soup--if there were any vegetables in the soup they
were peelings only--I began to ask myself what I was accomplishing. I
decided to spend the afternoon going over my reports. If I did not
show up for the afternoon shift, my pay would be docked. I had credit
of my own. I would survive. With so many men going off to the front,
shifts were often poorly staffed and men went missing all the time.

I could find nothing in the case files that gave me any ideas. Because
I was at an impasse, I took out the report I had been given on
Heracles Beja. His report seemed very much like the others which was
very odd. I ran a comparison. Except for a few items like physical
description, date and place of birth, Heracles Beja's report was
identical to that of one of the dead men. How could this be? Heracles
Beja was killed with a ray gun. I knew that. I had seen the body. That
was the conclusion the robot concierge came to as well. We never found
the ray gun, but that meant nothing. It is a big planet and the ray
gun could have gone into a recycle, off a balcony or into the river
with no one the wiser. I knew it had not come aboard Captain Star
Runner's ride. Star Runner checked for weapons. Whoever had killed
Heracles Beja had disposed of himself and his weapon.

But this report bothered me. I read it over several times. It was
marked with all the official virtual seals it was supposed to have,
but I realized the only possible conclusion was that it was a forgery.
If Heracles Beja's report was a forgery, could these two other reports
be forgeries, too? 

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF


		This is basically hogwash. It will move the story
		along for now, but Detective Ronnie Camberwell needs a
		lot more than thought to make this and  a few more
		conclusions reasonable. I will leave it for now
		because I have no idea what this process should look
		like at the moment.

I needed a few answers. I went looking for them.

Fortunately, I was given clothes for work. My clothes from the
seamstress were still in new condition.. I put them on and went
looking for the police department.

By now I had a much better idea of how this transfer point worked.
Transfer Point Seventeen was very old. It creaked along, but many
parts of it were broken or out of order. There was not a regular
maintenance schedule for non-essential services. The store I went
through to reach the seamstress, for instance, was a parts
store--parts to repair almost anything--cook stoves, refrigeration
units, motorized carts, furniture, lighting, air circulatory, heating
and cooling systems. If there was a machine on the transfer point,
this store and many others like it had parts for it. People went from
store to store, sifting through bins, trying to find the right part.

I found the police room--you could hardly call it a station--behind a
store which appeared to sell used home items. I found bedding,
furniture, lighting fixtures, trays for automatic cookers. Later I
learned it was a consignment store. People were selling off their
goods to pay their bills. Pawn shops were also plentiful. I wondered
if everyone was selling, who was buying.

I showed my reports to the policeman on duty. I had no idea what his
rank was. He gave the reports a superficial review and said, "Not
ours."

"Not yours?" I asked. I felt stupid after I said it, but what could he
mean? "If they are not yours, whose are they?"

He shook his head. "They are our seals," he said, "but they are not
our reports."

"How do you know?" I asked.

"They do not have the right signatures and the right watermarks," he
said. "Someone sold you fake reports."

He made no offer to file a complaint. I did not inquire about doing
so. The police official seemed uninterested. He did not even suggest I
pay him to do so. Bribery was quite common on the transfer point. I
never was sure if it was legal or just not offense anyone worried
about. I thanked the police official for his time and left the police
room.

I found a shop where I could get something warm to drink and
considered my options.

What did I know?

4. The report I was given and which looked to the non-initiated to be
   real, was not.  
5. The report on Heracles Beja was identical to that of one of the
   dead men killed here on the transfer point.
6. No one knew either of the two workers killed here on the transfer
   point.

7. Could I safely conclude the men were as unreal as their case files?
8. Why? What was all this about?

My first thought was misdirection. The men were invented to throw
someone off the track. Off the track of what? Who was supposed to be
thrown off the track? I was hired to, ostensibly, help the police
force but clearly the police force was not involved because the two
men had not died. They were fictitious.

What point was served by having me investigate? I had not seen Suri
Iglesia since I left the seamstress shop. She had indicated, rather
brusquely and with her usual disregard for anyone else's feelings,
that she was disassociating herself from me. I could turn my findings
over to the police. They were expecting my report.

But when I had gone into the police room, they did not know who I was
nor did they care.

I was someone's dupe, but I did not know whose. Did I care? Should I
just walk away and go back to Captain Star Runner's ride? And do what?

We had worked together on the case files--Christabel and I had worked
on the case files. I corrected myself. Captain Star Runner and I had
not interacted much at all for a long time. I started going back
before I received the contract to protect Suri Iglesia. I lived on
Half Moon Bay Space Station. I worked with Jack Whicher. Captain Star
Runner lived aboard her ride and came and went running her
high-speed courier business. We saw each other when Captain Star
Runner was docked at the space station for any amount of time. As the
months progressed, our conversations had lagged. We had less and less
to say to one another. Our lovemaking had been perfunctory and less
often. I found myself not wanting to go to restaurants in my pod with
her. I did not want to be known as the humanoid who hung around with a
Pantheran. Captain Star Runner was well-respected as someone who could
give you fast turn around, but she did not fit in well at Half Moon
Bay Space Station. She was an outsider, far more so than I was. She
docked her ride on the seedier side, preferring low rates to classier
facilities. Her ride was well-maintained, of course, but
dockside ambiance did not interest her at all.

I liked a better standard of living. I liked the people I met who
lived and worked on the station. In a very real sense, we were not
spacers. We just happened to live on a space station. We did not enjoy
space travel. The long runs through hyperspace either bored us or
frightened us. We liked our creature comforts and for the most part,
we could get them. We could even spend time in the garden areas,
pretending we were planet side. I had a favorite bench in a little
grove of trees. Right now I could not remember their name or where
they came from. A week living on transfer Point Seventeen had robbed
me of that beauty.

The weapon was not a soul killer. This transfer point is the soul
killer.

Then I remembered. The weapon was not real.

So what was the point of all this?

One of the dangers of police work, especially the private work i do,
is becoming emotionally involved. At first, I was in danger of
becoming emotionally involved with Suri Iglesia. Perhaps I had become
involved. Perhaps I still was. The ability to walk away is very
important.. Jack Whicher told me that all the time. It might work well
in novels to have the investigator solve the crime on his or her own
time, but practically speaking, that makes no sense. There are other
jobs and others things to do. If you are invested in one outcome or
another, you are bound to get into trouble. 

I knew all that, but there was no where else to go and nothing else to
do. I resolved to get to the bottom of this mess.

To that end, I went in search of Suri Iglesia.  Had I not, had I
returned to Captain Star Runner's ride, this story would have had a
very different ending. 
   
