Chapter Seventeen: Asking Questions
-----------------------------------

.. NOTE:: I do not know how to go about writing this chapter. Ronnie
	  wants to get to the bottom of things. How will she start
	  going about it?


My first order of business was to figure out who to talk to first. The
logical person was Suri herself.

Tracking Suri Iglesia down was not an easy matter. I continued to
maintain my male identity. This made for social complications. 

* Did I have an appointment
  
* Was I on the approved list?
  
* What was this in reference to?
  
* Did I have a referral?
  
* Did I have a letter of introduction?

The man asking me these questions was not so much a footman or a
butler but a bouncer. He was quite intimidating. I had no idea if Suri
was in at the complex of rooms called her home. The local word was
compound. I simply did not go away and kept asking to see her on a
private matter. Apparently that was not sufficient.

I stood in one of Transfer Point Seventeen's unadorned and grimy
corridors facing a non-descript metal door. There was no doubt in my
mind it was reinforced with a sophisticated locking mechanism. I could
not see the man I was speaking to, but I was certain he could see me
via the security cameras placed at strategic points around the door,
above me and in the corridor itself. The door looked old like
everything on Transfer Point Seventeen. At some point in its history
there was an attack or someone tried to force their way in. The door
was scorched. Jagged lines scored its surface and there were numerous
holes. I could not tell how deep either defacement went, but I could
not see light through any of the holes.

"You will have to give me something," the bouncer was saying, "or this
conversation will end and it will not be restarted."

What could I say to get this man to contact Suri? I took a deep mental
breath and took a chance. What else could I do?

"I represent Heracles Beja," I said.

"Heracles Beja is dead," the man said dismissively. "You cannot
represent him."

"OH yes I can," I said, suddenly feeling my role. "I represent
Heracles Beja's interests and his part of the intellectual property
from Planet X."

The bouncer hesitated. He would have no intimate knowledge of what
happened on Planet X or perhaps even what intellectual property there
might be.
\"Very well," He said. "I will determine if it would be appropriate to
see Suri Iglesia on this matter or whether it would be better for you
to speak to someone else in the family."

That was not what I had intended, but I was committed. Perhaps a
family member would be more helpful than Suri had been. She had a lot
of explaining to do.

After a long wait, the door swung open. There was a lot of squealing
noises. Did anyone on this Transfer Point know anything about greasing
hinges? Why did they use hinges anyway? (Later I learned that
everything on the transfer point was mechanical so that a power
failure would not interrupt the opening and closings of doors. This
meant, of course, that no area could be quickly sealed against an air
leak or other calamity. This would have dire consequences for Transfer
Point Seventeen later.)

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

	    A dramatic possibility is an attack on the transfer point.
	    There could be a significant breach with many deaths. I am
	    not sure if I want to go down that avenue but it does make
	    for some excitement. It may be a good way for Detective
	    Ronnie Camberwell to discover Captain Star Runner has left
	    the transfer point despite Star Runner's promise to her. 

I was escorted through several rooms before I went through another
scorched, scored and shot up door into another section of the
compound. Clearly this was a more lived in area. There were actually
carpets on the metal floors.

I entered a small sitting room. Suri Iglesia stood in its center.

My escort allowed me to enter while remaining in the doorway.

"You may leave," Suri instructed him.

"But Celser," he began.

"I said 'leave us'," Suri snapped. He left, but did not close the door
behind him. Suri went to it quickly and very quietly closed it.

"What are you doing here?" Suri said, whispering and seeming to hiss
at me.

Having heard a Pantheran really hiss, her attempts at outrage did not
impress me. When Captain Star Runner hisses, she arches her back and
puffs up all over. It is quite an impressive sight. Suri Iglesia on
the other hand seemed far more frightened than angry. Her anger was
only a cover for something else--fear most likely.

"I came to report," I said. "Your bouncer was quite unsympathetic to my
attempts at not drawing attention to either myself or you."

"You should not have come here." Suri Iglesia scolded me.

This cloak and dagger approach was getting tiresome. Transfer Point
Seventeen was certainly tiresome: the food, the air, the whole look
and feel of the place. I yearned for Half Moon Bay Station. Was that
now representing home to me? I was not certain. Perhaps it only
represented what security I ever felt I had.

Suri said, "And you should never mention Heracles Beja, especially
here." She literally stamped her foot in frustration.

"We need to talk," I said, folding my arms in a Lystran gesture of
absolute immovability.

"Not here," Suri Iglesia repeated.

"Then where?" I asked. "It has to be now."

"I cannot leave right now," Suri Iglesia said in that same low urgent
voice. "There will be too many questions."

"Where then?" I asked. "When?"

"Number twenty-eight maintenance tunnel," she whispered. "You know the
place."

I did. At the appropriate time, I went there.

And that is when Suri Iglesia pulled the ray gun on me.

I do not know what the emergency in her household was or if it was a
well-played means of getting me to maintenance tunnel twenty-eight.
Either way, Suri Iglesia was holding a ray gun on me.

"You know too much," Suri Iglesia said. "I cannot afford to have you
asking questions."

I wanted to ask her many questions. I wondered why she thought she had
to kill me. I had learned enough in my short time on Transfer Point
Seventeen that her family was important enough to keep her out of
trouble but not very important in the scheme of things. She could be
shuttled off somewhere where her youthful indiscretions could be
overlooked and then forgotten. After the birth of her two baby pair,
could assume the role of a pampered Lystran matron and everything
would go on as usual. I did not have to die. Why did she think I did?

You would think being in an awful maintenance tunnel with a slightly
hysterical woman pointing a ray gun at you would be terrifying. I
thought about getting into being terrified, and then I channeled the
male Lystran I was pretending to be. 

"Put that stupid toy down," I said as firmly as I could. "The ricochet
could be heard and it could bounce back and hurt you."

Suri waved the ray gun around which was quite frightening. 

"I know how to use this," she insisted.

"I am certain you do," I said. And then all at once I knew the answer.
It was the answer Captain Star Runner gave me back on Planet X.

"Why did you killed Heracles Beja," I asked calmly.

It is true, you know. Criminals really do like boasting about their
exploits. If I could keep her talking and learn her reasons, perhaps
there was a way out of this impasse.

"He was going to publish my work," Suri Iglesia said, seeming to
forget about the ray gun altogether. It started to lower. I breathed a
little easier.

"I only brought him along as cover and to do some of the harder bits.
He wanted to publish all my work and take credit for it."

"That sounds like a problem," I said, wanting to keep Suri talking,
wanted to follow her tangled logic.

" I knew him in school, of course," Suri continued, "He was bright
enough. I figured he could be useful, you know, doing all the grunt
work out there. You know what it was like."

"Yes," I said. "Then what happened?"

"He took all my notes," Suri said, outrage coming into her voice. She
was becoming strident. "He copied them out himself, creating a field
notebook in his own writing. I had to destroy it, of course."

"Of course," I agreed, knowing that no such thing had happened. Suri
Iglesia had attached herself to a rising star in the archaeological
field. When his work was complete, she had copied his work and then
killed him for her own ends.


"And do you have the notes?" I asked, hoping that was the right thing
to say.

"You bet I do," Suri said. "I do not have them stored in any of the
linked systems. I do not want my work to get out until I am ready to
publish. People will be very surprised when I publish my work."

"Why is that?" I asked. Keep her talking. Whatever happens, keep her
talking. I did not dare move toward her though she had just about
forgotten she was holding the ray gun. I could not move fast enough to
wrench it away from her. I was strong enough. I was just too far away.

"I am not ready to publish it yet," Suri Iglesia said. "I have more
work to do on it. People will be very surprised."

"Really?" I said. "Why is that?"

"Because everybody thinks those structures are only a couple of
thousand years old. They are much older than that. The people who
built them are really, really old."

"Who are they?" I regretted my question as soon as I had asked it.
Suri's demeanor changed. She brought the ray gun back up on me.

"Never mind who they are. You do not need to know. You do not need to
know any of this."

I saw her finger move. She was trying to unlock the safety.

I tried to be ready. When she looked down to unlock the safety, I
needed to move fast. It is a complicated lock. It is designed that way
so the ray gun does not go off prematurely. That makes it a poor
choice for killing people as Suri was trying to kill me.

Suri looked down.

I moved.

Just as I reached her and she released the safety, the alarm sirens
bleared.

"This is not a drill. We are under attack. Report to your designated
locations. This is not a drill. We are under attack."

Suri Iglesia screamed. Whether she screamed because I grabbed her arm
or whether she screamed because of the siren bleating over our heads I
do not know. She wrenched away from me and ran, quickly disappearing
from view.

"This is not a drill. We are under attack--"

I scooped up the ray gun and I ran, too. I did not run toward any
designated area. I ran toward the docks and Captain Star Runner's
ride. This might be our chance to escape.

I ran through corridors, pushing past people--all sorts of people. I
did not care if I bumped them, if they went down. I just ran. Barely
able to catch my breath, I ran onto the long platform where the
spaceships were docked. I ran to the place where Captain Star Runner's
spaceship was.

And it was not there. There was an empty space. The ride was gone.

Stupidly, I ran up and down the platform, looking at all the
spaceships. The bronze disc was not there. There were only torch
ships.

I ran to the dock office Someone was there. I asked where Captain Star
Runner's spaceship was.

"Left three days ago," the dock office worker said disinterestedly. 

"Where did she go?"

"I have no idea," the dock office worker said. "I was not on duty then.
I am closing up now. You should be at your designated area."

I was thunderstruck. Captain Star Runner had left Transfer Point
Seventeen without me. How could she do that? She had promised. She had
not even communicated with me about it.

The Transfer Point shook violently. I staggered, knocking into the
wall. The dock office worker, who was walking past me, put out his hand
to steady me, then the space station lurched again. We fell in a heap
onto the floor.

"Emergency personnel report to section thirty-five, thirty-six and
thirty-seven," instructed the loud speaker over our heads. "Sections
thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty and forty-one are open to space.
Refrain from proceeding to those sections."

I tried to think where those sections were."

"The upper echelon living areas," the dock office worker gasped. "That
is where they would have reported to."

That meant many of the upper class families were dead. Perhaps Suri
Iglesia was one of them.

"Do you know who is attacking us?" I asked. I was still in my role as
a Lystran from somewhere else in the empire.

We were getting to our feet.

"I heard it was the People of the Golden Sun," the dock office worker
said. 

We left the dock area together. I figured it did not much matter where
I went. If I had a designated area, I did not know what it was. This
was not my fight, but I was here. What else was there for me to do? 

The dock office worker had said the attack was by the People of the
Golden Sun. That made no sense at all. Lystra was at war with the
People of the Rainbow Sky and so by definition, the People of the
Golden Sun should be their allies. Had something changed? I was not
following the conflict particularly closely. I really was not that
interested so long as the fighting war stayed far away from my
location.

I was turning a corner when it happened. The dock office worker had
run ahead of me, anxious to get to his designated area. I was just
following along, wondering where I was going and what would happen when
I got there.

Suddenly a door opened and someone stepped out. Someone very odd
looking. For a split second I saw the head, the ears, the whiskers.
Could it be Captain Star Runner? Of course not. This being was erect.
The color was all wrong. What sort of a being was this? Was this the
enemy? Was I about to be captured? Tortured? Killed?

I stepped back. The being stepped in front of me and said, "Detective
Ronnie Camberwell. I have been looking for you."
