chapter Nineteen: Sitting by a Fountain
-----------------------------------------

The Tigerfu brought me to a place they called the Habitat. This was a
large domed complex on a planet far from the war zone. My rescuers did
not bring me all the way here. Several different very kind Tigerfu
shepherd me on my journey. At all times they told me and treated me
ass their honored guest. I was touched by their consideration and
their gentle ways. It seemed strange to me that these quiet and
patient people were aggressors in a war.

I gained very little information on my long journey. They listened to
me tell my story of betrayal over and over. When I asked questions,
they told me I would have my questions answered when I reached the
Habitat.

I imagined the Habitat to be a complex space station, something like
Half Moon Bay Station, with myriad pods held together with rings of
docks for shipping. The reality was far nicer and a pleasant surprise.

When I say the Habitat was a domed city, I am not quite accurate. It
is a series of domes, each of which can be self-sustaining if the
others breach. As a result, even the urban areas have large productive
gardens. 

Consistent with their gentle ways, the Tigerfu decided to be
vegetarians. They grow their own food very carefully without undue
chemical interventions. Every Tigerfu learns how to cultivate a small
garden so that the entire race is able to step in to feed themselves
in case of disaster.

"Once, my teacher said, "we were a highly specialized society. When
our disaster came, we almost failed because so few of us knew the
basics. Food sufficiency was one of the core studies we decided to be
part of every Tigerfu juvenile's education. We also added basic
programming and the use of hardware and software for communication.
Each Tigerfu must select a specialty. We monitor so that the
specialties are well-balanced. For example, we make sure we have
medics. We also make sure we have people to repair our domes, produce
potable water, process our waste. Sometimes our specialty choice is
turned down because we have so many with that specialty. We give
assign the juvenile to a needed specialty. If later they want to add
to their proficiency, we allow that, but they must maintain their
certification in their first core competency. It is a matter of pride
among us if we have certification in several areas.

"What about you? What are your specialties," I asked. I had no doubt
he had more than one.


Gemall smiled. "I am a juvenile teacher, of course. My specialties are
water management and disaster relief. I work several weekends a year
in the public works section and I train regularly in disaster relief.
From time to time I go off planet to help in a natural disaster. There
were terrible floods on one planet three years ago."

Gemall and I walked daily in the gardens. When Gemall was not
available, I walked with my Counselor, Dibenan. Both of these Tigerfu
spent many hours with me. When I was not with them, I had my own room,
arranged as I wished, with a large window overlooking a quiet
courtyard. There were benches and a fountain with a few potted growing
things. Some were vegetables while others had flowers. Vines were on
trellises overhead. The fountain added humidity to the air. The
plantings consumed carbon dioxide and returned oxygen. It was a
pleasant place to sit. The other residents of my building gave me
expressions of friendliness, but did not intrude. I ate with them at
the common meals. As they spoke in their own language and as my
ability to converse in it was still very minimal, I enjoyed their
company without participating in their interactions.

I learned these were students. It was thought that although they were
younger than I was, they could provide a supportive atmosphere and
interacting with me would be helpful to them as well.

In a way, I was a pedagogical tool. In another way, I could provide
value as part of the society and I appreciated the opportunity to give
in my limited way. Although the Tigerfu had a very good safety net,
they also expected everyone to contribute as they were able. If you
could contribute and did not,, you were shunned. Social pressure led
to conformance in many cases.

"Is there much crime here?" I asked Gemall one day.

"Some," Gemall said. "Why do you ask?"

"I am a police officer by training," I said. "I have also done private
investigations and worked as a body guard. I was wondering if my skill
set is useful here."

"Yes," Gemall said. "I would like to tell you, as a member of a
different race, that we had no crime here, but you probably would not
believe me even if I said it."

I smiled. Gemall and Dibenan were beginning to recognize this facial
expression. I was still woefully inadequate at reading Tigerfu body
language. They still needed to tell me when they were joking which
they did often.     

"No, I would not believe that any society had gone past crime," I
said. "Temptation, greed, pride--all what we humans called deadly
sins--seem to exist in all societies I know about except the Fungusian
Network."

"No you are correct," I said. "I would not believe you."

Gemall made a gesture with her paw arms. I knew this was a smile. "You
will have to speak and understand Tigerfu much better before you can
operate in law enforcement."

"I take your point," I said. "I must redouble my efforts."

Later that day Dibenan asked, "How are you finding living here among
us?"

I thought for a while, watching the fountain splash down on some
fantastical water creatures.

"I miss my home," I said. "I miss my friends. And despite her
betrayal, I miss Star Runner. But missing them aside, I am quite
comfortable here."

"But--" Counselor Dibenan prompted.

"But it is still very unreal," I said. "It is like being in a movie. I
keep thinking it will end. I will find myself removed from my
residence, removed from knowing anyone like you or Gemall, and among
some brutish aliens where I cannot trust anyone."

"Trust is a major issue for you," Dibenan said.

"Yes," I said.

"It has been a major issue for you from your juvenile period. Yet,
from what you have told me, there have always been people who have
stepped in and renewed your trust in others. Mr. and Mrs. Parge raised
you when your parents could not, for example."

"I have not made wise choices as an adult," I said.

"Let us test that assertion," Dibenan suggested.

"All right," I said. "Let me provide you with a list and you tell me
what you think."

"That is a good idea," Dibenan said.

So I began:

* Captain Star Runner
  
* Tara Lee Harris
  
* Gyllian Romeres-Lujo
  
* Tamara
  
* Josh

I provided Dibenan with background on each of these and a few others
who are unknown to the readers of these chronicles.

Dibenan listened with her full attention, a common trait among
Tigerfu. She was quiet for some time. Like me, she studied the
fountain. Unlike me, she probably saw more of the essence of fountain
than I did.

"Relationships are much like this fountain," she finally said. "There
is practicality. The fountain provides humidity. There is also beauty.
Sometimes the water catches the light just right and there are tiny
rainbows. We hear the sound of the splashing water and it soothes us.
I look at the sea creatures and remember our myths and legends about
them. This gives me joy and perhaps even a bit of sorrow that they are
fictional representations of greater truths. 

"Relationships can also be annoying. The sound of water can become
irritating. The water can be cold and wet and make us uncomfortable."

She paused.

"Relationships are not all one way and not all one way all the time.
There are uncomfortable bits worked into joyful bits worked into
routine bits worked into sorrowful bits. They ebb and flow and
circulate like the water in this fountain."

"Betrayal is like letting the plug out and all the water draining
out," I said. "There is nothing beautiful in that."

"Not beautiful exactly," Dibenan said, "but sometimes it is necessary
to turn the fountain off, drain the water and thoroughly clean and
repair the fountain before starting it up again. Part of what I think
you need to wrestle with is possibilities."

"But I do not want to--" I began.

"Hush now," Dibenan said in her gentle way. "Tell me if any of these
individuals intended to betray you?"

I thought about this. I tried to think honestly about this.

"Having different goals, having different priorities from you is not
betrayal," Dibenan continued. "Tara Lee, your former human lover,
wanted a monogamous lifelong relationship with you. You were unwilling
to give up your affection for Captain Star Runner and the excitement
of being with an alien in order to meet Tara Lee's desires. You have
been in conflict with both Tamara and Gyllian Romeres-Lujo because of
their special relationship with Star Runner and with their different
objectives, their loyalties to different institutions."

"You are painted me as quite a selfish person," I said. I knew I
sounded petulant.

"Are you a selfish person?" Dibenan asked.

"I do not think so," I said. "I have strong opinions about what I like
and I do not like."

"Do you think of yourself as a negotiator, as a person who is willing
to change for the sake of another's happiness or needs?"

I was silent. Dibenan did not speak while she waited for me to say
something.

"I have always wanted to be a police officer," I said..  Both Mr. and
Mrs. Parge were very keen on what was right and what was wrong. Police
work can be very good for a person who likes the world ordered in that
way. They were very scandalized by my relationship with Captain Star
Runner. In their minds, associating with an alien in an intimate way
was obscene. Consorting with a Pantheran was disloyal to the human
race. I think I have always been afraid that their assessment of Star
Runner would be accurate."

"And every time Star Runner behaves in a manner consistent with your
foster parents' ideas about aliens and Pantherans in particular, you
pull back from your relationship," Dibenan said.

"But Star Runner promised," I said. "She promised not to leave me on
the transfer point."

"Have you kept every promise you ever made?" Dibenan asked. 

I did not answer her. Of course I had not kept every promise I ever
made. Who had?

"Unless you discover Captain Star Runner's reason for leaving the
transfer point without you, you cannot know for certain. In our
teachings, the Tigerfu wise ones say we should always give the other
the benefit of the doubt. We should always imagine the other is
trustworthy and has failed due to circumstances beyond their control.
We try to find the most helpful explanation for someone else's actions
or to find some good in what they did. If Captain Star Runner left
prior to the attack, perhaps Captain Star Runner is still alive. If
she had stayed, she might not have been able to rescue you and save
both of you. As it is, you are alive and very likely, Captain Star
Runner is, too."

"But if she loved me, she would have stayed," I said, tearing up
again.

Dibenan waited for me to get control over myself.

"And if you loved Captain Star Runner," she asked in her soft voice,
"would you have left her ride and gone aboard Transfer Point
Seventeen with the Lystran woman?"

That was a very hard question. I did not answer Dibenan. We sat for a
time in silence. At last Dibenan said, "It is time for me to leave. I
will talk with you again tomorrow."

I watched her leave the courtyard by the gate onto the walkway between
buildings. She walked purposefully, not looking back. I wondered if I
had let her down. As a counselor, letting her down did not seem
possible. But as an individual, did she see me as a selfish, immature
alien who did not strive for the higher ethics the Tigerfu practiced?
I did not know. I would have to ask Gemall in the morning. Was it
possible that I held everyone else to a higher standard than I was
willing to set for myself?

Confused and with a heavy step, I left the courtyard, too, and
prepared for the evening meal.

As either penance or my first step on the path to better living, I
concentrated on the conversation around me and spoke a few words. I
was greeted with encouragement, appreciation and yes, some humor, at
my bad pronunciation and grammar. I think at one point I called our
plate of beautifully arranged and steamed vegetables engine grease.
