Chapter Twenty: Visitors Come to the Habitat
----------------------------------------------

Armed with my decision to interact more with my new environment, I
explored the area around my living quarters and the park. I was living
on a campus. Schools of varying kinds operated here. Gemall advised me
not to go beyond the school grounds.

"Why?" I asked. "Am I under house arrest?"

"You are not," Gemall explained. "The problem is you are humanoid. We
are fighting a war against humanoids. Your identification clearly
labels you as not one of the races we are fighting, but people get
excited and they may not take time to correctly identify you."

I was astonished. "From all you have told me, I thought the Tigerfu
were more enlightened than that."

Gemall made the humor gesture. "We like to think we are," he said.
"However, Tigerfu are no different than anyone else. We accept people
who look like us. We are suspicious of those who do not. You do not."

"You spoke of my identification," I said. "What is that?"

"The arm band you wear," Gemall said. "We all wear them. It identifies
who you are over the net."

"You have a net?"

"Of course," Gemall said. "We were wondering when you would ask about
it."

"Who is we?" I asked.

"Dibenan, me and a few others that supervise your integration into our
society," Gemall said.

"I do have a link," I said. "It has not been integrated with your
net."

"We are looking at that," Gemall said. "So far we do not see a way to
connect the two of them."

The armband could not directly interface with my brain as it is so
different than a Tigerfu brain. However the technologists were able to
fabricate an interface for me consisting of a screen I could carry
with me and I could speak to it. It was not as private as a
brain-connected link, but we set it up to understand basic galactic so
I could interface with it easily. It could also understand Tigerfu so
I could practice my language skills. If I slowed the speech down, I
could also understand most of what it said in Tigerfu. Many of the
sounds were hard to distinguish. Part of the problem for me is that
Tigerfu has some very high sounds and some very low sounds. They are
virtually beyond my ability to hear.

In my explorations, I found a lovely bistro   

at the edge of campus. Gemall had explained that I had a modest
stipend which also covered my room and board"Every Tigerfu is entitled
to this stipend," he explained. "We thought it was the simplest way to
allocate your expenses. Of course," he added in his serious voice,
"you are expected to contribute to society as you are able."

"I plan to do just that," I said. "We have spoken about law
enforcement."

"Yes, we have," Gemall said. "We are exploring that and some related
possibilities."

No matter how many additional questions i asked, I could not find out
more about this mysterious we or what related possibilities might
mean. When I brought the matter up with Dibenan, she only said that
"we" referred to a committee on which both she and Gemall were members
and related possibilities simply meant looking at tasks I had the
aptitude and interest to perform.

"That is still a ways down the path," Dibenan had said. "You need to
be far more competent with your language skills and your grasp of
Tigerfu society."

To this end, I walked into the bistro.

People of course noticed me. I selected a beverage and a popular
snack. I fumbled a great deal connecting my identity and its
associated financial identity to the payment system, but I managed it
after several tries. No one became impatient. I realized that in a
busy market my fumblings would annoy people. My alien status would
upset them. Gemall and Dibenan were right. I was nowhere near ready to
 take on Tigerfu society as a whole.

I carried my treats outside to a bench under a tree with large red
blossoms. To me, it had a delicate aroma. To the Tigerfu, it had an
overwhelming fragrance. The trees were prized for their fruit and so
they were common throughout the campus. 


"Here you are, Ronnie," a Tigerfu voice said.

I looked up. Two Tigerfu were approaching me. I did not recognize
them. To me, it is hard to tell one Tigerfu apart from another. I was
still  learning how to use my wearable link to read their
identification information. These two Tigerfu were military.

"We're Janker and Suchee," one of them said.

I of course got them mixed up. They made the humorous gesture and I
laughed. No one was offended thankfully.

I was delighted to see them and told them so.

"What are you doing here in the Habitat?" I asked you. "It is a long
way from the front."

"We are on leave," Suchee explained. "We came here to see our family."

"The grandchildren are growing cubs," Janker explained. "If we are away
too long, we hardly recognize them."

"You are a couple, then?" I asked.

"For many years," Janker said. "We have three grown cubs and four
grand cubs."

"Wonderful" I said. "I had no idea."

"We did not want to burden you with more than you could handle,"
Suchee said, sitting down next to me.

"Is the tree a problem?" I asked. "I know many find its blossoms very
strong."

"Yes, they are very strong," Suchee said, "but they are one of the
scents of home. Janker and I have been sneezing a lot. Aboard ship we
have so much filtered out of our atmosphere. But we enjoy all these
scents so we just sneeze and delight in being home."

Suchee patted my hand.

"We understand you are doing well here."

"I am learning," I said. I wondered if Janker and suchee had access to
the committee. If they did, they probably would not tell me. They had
not even told me they were a long-term mated pair.

"The committee thought it was best if we came to visit you," Janker
began. "We have some news for you."

What sort of news could this pair have for me? I was confused.

"We have word of your Captain Star Runner," Suchee said. "I know her
well-being is important to you."

Was it? I was no longer sure.

"I am in military intelligence," Janker explained. "That was why we
came to Transfer Point Seventeen in the Lystran Empire. We were
tracking down a lead. It turns out you were the most expedient person
to ask. You had the reports we were looking for to add to our
intelligence."

I frowned. "The reports were entirely bogus," I said. "I do not
understand how they could have helped you."

"The reports were not bogus," Janker said.

"The men did not exist," I said. "I could find no evidence concerning
them."

"Oh, they were real enough," Janker said. "They were agents of the
Followers of the Stars--not willingly, of course, but they were
feeding information to the Followers of the Stars. When the Followers
of the Stars had all the information they needed, the agents
self-terminated."

"With the soul killer?" I asked, incredulous.

"Is that what you call it?" Janker asked, surprised.

"It seemed the only name for the brain disruption," I said.

"It is a good name," Janker said. "I should recommend it with credit
to you."

"But why could not anyone give me any information about these men?" I
asked.

"They were totally forgettable people," Janker said. "They were not to
make friends or stand out in any way. After their deaths, the records
were updated to eliminate them. With no proof, you were bound to
discount their existence."

"Janker was very lucky," Suchee said, patting my hand again. "You had
all the records."

"And," Janker said, "not to be too patronizing, you were storing them
in a way I could easily access them."

"I thought my security was state-of-the-art," I said a little
defensively.

"Not for us," Janker said. He almost sounded like a Pantheran.

Speaking of Pantherans, I asked, "You said you had news of Captain
Star Runner."

"Yes," Janker said. "She and her ship are in our custody."

"You captured her ship?" I asked. "Why?"

"She was carrying some very important communications for the People of
the Rainbow Sky," Janker said. "We learned this and intercepted her.
Wisely, she did not fight us but surrendered, believing we could not
crack the codes. We did."

"Is Star Runner all right? What are you doing with her?"

"At present, we are evaluating Captain Star Runner and her artificial
intelligence," Janker said. "Our code experts are going over the
programming. We have had to call in some biologists and zoologists as
well. It is a very complicated network."

"Why are you doing this?" I asked. "Captain Star Runner depends on
Christabel to survive."

"Christabel?" Janker made a gesture indicating  confusion. It was a
gesture I had learned to read and was working to sign adequately.
Lacking an extra set of arms, it was quite difficult to execute but quite useful
to learn.

"Christabel is the name of the AI," I said. "Christabel was built by
the Fungusian Network."

"And the Fungusian network is a part of the Pantheran Empire," Janker
said. He gestured uncertainty.

"No," I said. "The Fungusian network is outside the Coalition, the
group of races the Pantherans control. The Fungusian network is
independent. You might be able to contact them. They have no love of
the Pantherans."

"but they designed Captain Star Runner's network," Janker said. "Why
would they do that?"

I executed the thinking, wait a little while, gesture badly. Should I
tell them what I knew? Would it help or hinder Captain Star Runner. As
a prisoner of the Tigerfu, I thought information might help her so I
plunged in.

A long time ago, the Followers of the Stars oversaw a number of races:

* The Trollolu

* the Pantherans

* the Featherote

* the Fungusians

The Trollolu educated the three other races. Together, they built a
space faring consortium:

* the Featherote built the ships.

* The Fungusians designed the operating systems and software to
  control them.

* The Pantherans designed star runners to pilot them. They also
  engineered other Pantherans to work other aspects of the ship.

Then the Trollolu went to war against the Followers of the Stars and
were completely annihilated. The Followers of the Stars retired from
the galactic scene and each of the remaining races continued their
alliance. The Pantherans became an empire, conquering the Featherote
and a number of other races. They call it a Coalition so that these
races can believe they were not conquered. The Fungusians have not
been conquered. They exist independently.

Janker and Suchee were indicating disagreement.

"What is wrong?" I asked. "Have I gotten something wrong? Do you know
this history?"

"We know some of it," Janker said. "I will have to inquire from the
history department here on campus some of the particulars you mention.
These are unknown to me. Although I am a student of history, it is not
my core competencies. Here is where I think I disagree with your
conclusions.

"The Followers of the Stars did destroy the Trollolu. They nearly
destroyed the Tigerfu. When you say the Followers of the Stars retired
from political and military activity, they may have pulled back from
your galactic arm, but they continued to be active in this arm for
some time. They have also been absent from the scene, as you call it,
but they have reasserted themselves. They are working with their old
ally the People of the Rainbow Sky to control all the other races in
the Primary Arm. It seems the People of the Rainbow Sky felt
challenged by us and others and called on the Followers of the Stars
to help. Captain Star Runner has been their go-between. From our
initial analysis of the software aboard Captain Star Runner's vessel,
she is definitely controlled by them."

"There is pernicious software in her system?" I asked. I was shocked
the Fungusians had not identified it and I said so. "How is she being
compromised?"

"We have found the change logs," Janker said. "The Fungusians are
meticulous. We can follow their work. It is a very different methodology 
than ours, but our scientists can make sense of it. Then there are
other changes which are not so clear. These seem not to have been made
by the Fungusians."

"Captain Star Runner said the People of the Rainbow Sky did an upgrade
to her and to the artificial intelligence. Star Runner said there was
some kind of genetic drift that had taken place that made it
deleterious to her to be in the presence of the People of the Rainbow
Sky. Star Runner could not see them properly, only colored hazes."

"We thought it looked like their programming," Janker said. "We could
not understand it. I will tell the biology team to investigate this."

He spoke rapidly in Tigerfu and gestured just as quickly. I could not
really follow what he said, but I heard Star Runner's name several
times.

"This is very useful intelligence," Janker said to me. "What seems to
be very clear in that Captain Star Runner believes she is working
independently while in fact she is being controlled from the outside.
We are trying to figure out what to do. It is a serious ethical
question."

"We hoped you might help us," Suchee said. She continued to touch my
hand. "You have intimate knowledge of Captain Star Runner and may help
us chart the right response to this situation."

"You are free to say no," Janker hastened to add. "As much as we would
like your help, you, too, are a free agent. We recognize that you may
not want to help or be involved with Captain Star Runner anymore."

"We do not need an answer right away," Suchee said. "You can think
about it for a little while. Janker," she made a gesture of affection,
"wants an answer right away--you can understand this, I think--but in
reality it can wait for a few days."

We said some inconsequential things after this. Then they went away. I
continued to sit on the bench and tried to think and sort out my
emotional response to all of this. I was not surprised when Dibenan
sat down next to me with another beverage and  more substantial food."

"You missed the midday meal," she said. "I would think you would be
hungry."

"I have been trying to figure out what to say to Janker," I said,
fully believing Dibenan had been updated.

"And what have you been thinking?" Dibenan asked.

"I am first trying to really understand the overall situation," I
said. "With Captain Star Runner's explanations, I believed the People
of the Rainbow Sky were the good guys here. There is another component
called the People of the Golden Sun who are the bad guys."

"There is no group called the People of the Golden Sun," Dibenan said.
"They do not exist. They are an invention of the People of the Rainbow
Sky."

"But Captain Star Runner was captured by the People of the Golden Sun
and fought a battle against them. She was decorated for her work."

Dibenan was silent. I realized she was reaching out to the net.

 
"The People of the Rainbow Sky invented the People of the Golden Sun
for propaganda purposes," Dibenan said. "it is an excuse for war. It
is an excuse to rally worlds that have been increasingly restless
under burdens of taxation and tribute."

"It was quite real when Transfer Point Seventeen was blown up," I
said.

"The war itself is real," Dibenan said.

"And the attack against the Rabbit merchants?"

"We had reached out to them to join us," Dibenan said. "The People of
the Rainbow Sky destroyed their planet."

I thought my brain was going to explode. All this contradictory
information.

"It is a matter of trust, is it not?" I asked Dibenan. "You and I have
talked a lot about trust. Have you been trying to sway me to your side
or have you honestly wanted me to explore this topic?"

Dibenan made a gesture of surprise and, I thought, chagrin.

"You can be very perceptive," she said. "You cannot function in our
society without trust. You find it difficult to trust. We have talked
about that and I think you will agree my points have merit. There is
probably no real way to ascertain who is telling you the truth about
the bigger picture. We cannot fact check for ourselves."

"And Captain Star Runner? What is the ethical issue there?" I asked.

"We have always thought of ungendered Pantherans as creatures,"
Dibenan said. "They are controlled by their artificial intelligences.
If you control the artificial intelligence, you control them. They
function in a network.

"But here we have Captain Star Runner. Although she, more properly it,
must have access to an artificial intelligence for some basic
biological monitoring and memory management, this Pantheran is
functioning independently. There is no supervision of this creature's
decision-making except for the patches added by the People of the
Rainbow Sky. This might mean that this Pantheran is not a creature but
a person. The fact that you and Captain Star Runner had or have a
relationship speaks to the Pantheran's person hood."

I knew I was making an irrevocable decision. I knew there would be no
turning back. But I also knew a number of disparate pieces of my life
were coming together.

I said, "Captain Star Runner is a fuchsia-colored Pantheran. These are
rare in their history. Most ungendered Pantherans are pastel-colored.
Fuchsia-colored panther ans have always made a significant impact on
panther an society. Captain Star Runner has always wondered what" (I
almost said her, but I decided to give Captain Star Runner its own
preferred pronoun) its mission is. I think it is to demonstrate that
ungendered panther ans can be people. They can have self-determination.
They are not tools to be discarded."

"I will pass your sentiments on to the team evaluating Captain Star
Runner," Dibenan said, making ready to get up from the bench.

"No," I said. "I will join the team. I want to speak with Captain Star
Runner. It will need to participate in its own rehabilitation. The
Fungusian network will also have to be contacted to assist with any
changes that need to be made to Christabel. We have an opportunity
here. I do not want it to be wasted."

Dibenan was taken aback. I knew that I had never been this forceful or
definitive around her. But she also made a gesture of pleasure and
acknowledgement.

"Well done," she said. "I will put your recommendations forward as
well as your desire to be on the team."

"Not my desire," I said. "My insistence." 

"Agreed," Dibenan said.

I thought my request would be denied. I thought the bureaucracy would
take forever. I was wrong.

"Your application for membership on Captain Star Runner's team has
been accepted," Gemall told me the next day. "You will travel with
Janker and Suchee. Janker is already a member of the team. Suchee has
been reassigned to assist you in any way necessary. We also anticipate
Captain Star Runner will need help adjusting as well. If all goes
according to plan, you will both come back here at a later date. The
Habitat is a good location for integrating into our society."

"No," i said. "Captain Star Runner will not come here. This is a
planet with great expanses under the dome. Captain Star Runner needs
to be aboard its ride, integrated with its artificial intelligence.
When Captain Star Runner travels out of range of a good working
integration with the artificial intelligence, it must use a bridge AI.
It is less than satisfactory. Also a method for maintaining Captain
Star Runner's mind and body needs to be planet side. it is all quite
complicated and quite alien to it. Star runners are designed to be
part of their rides. In a real sense, the ride is a part of them. it
is a shell that can be changed, much like animals who grow and shed
their shells and skins, but they need their rides. If Captain Star
Runner is to be a person, it must needs to be aboard its ride and actively traveling on the space ways. Any other
life would not be natural."

Gemall was silent.

"I had not understood that," Gemall said. "You need to compose a
statement about this to the rest of the team. They are not thinking
this way as I understand it. You will have a great impact."

"Or I will be ignored," I said, having a bad feeling about this.

"No, I do not think so," Gemall said. "Janker and Suchee are very
positive about your contributions. The scientists are not ideologues.
They are just interested in the science and," Gemall made a gesture of
emphasis "and they do not want to do any harm whether to a person or a
creature."

And so it was that I left the Habitat several days later with Janker
and Suchee and traveled to where Captain Star Runner was being held.
Along the way, Janker told me more of what he had learned.

"We are going to a research facility," he told me in the common room
aboard our military fast ship. Military fast ships are small vessels
which ferry military personnel from one place to another inside
Tigerfu space. They are not heavily armed. Their function is speed.
"Captain Star Runner is aboard its ship, but we have disabled the
engines. My latest report is that it is quite agitated and believes
our questions and examinations are intrusive and meant to disable it."

"If you thought you were being held prisoner," I said, "You would
think the same things. This would be especially true if you believed
you were being held by the enemy."

"That is the odd thing," Janker said. "We are not convinced Captain
Star Runner thinks we are the enemy."

"But I thought you said, or someone said, Captain Star Runner has
patches from the People of the Rainbow Sky that control it."

"Yes, in some regards, but the work that has been done most recently
suggests these patches are very specific and do not affect Captain
Star Runner's overall thinking. We are hoping that you can sort a lot
of this out for us. Captain Star Runner has not been very forthcoming
to us."

"have you learned where Captain Star Runner went after it left
Transfer Point Seventeen?" I asked. "I would like to get clear about
that before I see it."

"Yes, we do," Janker said. "That has to do with the patch. The
Pantheran received a communication from someone it knew from its
previous visit to the Blue Fire Star System, one Sam lam Seah. Captain
Star Runner could not resist the summons so it went. The summons
removed Captain Star Runner from the area of Transfer Point Seventeen
and thus kept it safe when the transfer point exploded. The summons
was real enough. We intercepted Captain Star Runner after its visit to
the Blue Fire Star System."

"And we suspect," Suchee added, "that leaving you behind was something
Captain Star Runner had no control over."

"Nor did your presence aboard Captain Star Runner's ship known to the
People of the Rainbow Sky. Retrieving you was not part of the
summons," Janker explained. "If it was, you would not have been left
there. Captain Star Runner has been very distressed about you."

"Have you told it I am alive and well?" I asked.

"No," Janker said.

I make Tigerfu gestures badly, but I deliberately made my gesture of
anger slowly and carefully.

"That is cruel," I said. "You tell Captain Star Runner immediately
that I am well and looking forward to visiting it. Causing needless
distress is unethical behavior."

Janker made a gesture of contrition and sorrow. "You are correct," he
said. "I deeply regret our behavior. Our only defense is that we did
not know if you wished to be revealed to the Pantheran. We will
correct this immediately."

During my next rest period, I lay awake in my bunk, wondering what
this reunion would be like. I was adamant that Captain Star Runner
should be treated like the person   
it was. I was less sure how i wanted our personal interactions to be?
Were we still lovers? Was I just a friend? Had I become Captain Star
Runner's advocate?

Maybe, I thought, it was not as important as I once thought it was to
distinguish these three roles. What was important right now was doing
the right thing, the ethical thing, for Captain Star Runner. After I
did that, maybe I would never see it again. Maybe I would just return
to the Habitat and find some meaningful work to do. 

As I fell asleep, I thought, the Tigerfu had already won me over. I
was thinking and acting in a very different way than I ever had
before. I hoped I would be happy with myself when I was finished with
this project.
