#+TITLE: In Which I Read Reports
#+HTML_LINK_UP: [file:index.html][Blog]]
#+HTML_LINK_UP: [[filekearsarge.html][Kearsarge]]

-----

* In Which I Read Reports

The co-op provides meals. I can go downstairs to the
well-appointed dining room or the Cafe on the Patio or I can order meals
from my kitchen. I could cook myself if I wanted to but I have never
mastered the art of measuring, chopping and heating. So I requested a
meal from the cafe and went back to the balcony to read my reports. The
kitchen would ding when the food was delivered. I do not employ a house
server, human or robot. The maid bots come in once a week as a service
of the co-op. I pay for the service, of course.

Kearsarge was thirty-two years old. She had been married to Samuel
Cornelius Mudd at the age of twenty-one.

I also put in a deep background query for Mr. S. C. Mudd. Perhaps it
was his life and death which was generating these threats.

I scolded myself.  I should have thought of this earlier when I put in
Kearsarge's background check. I was woefully out of practice in the
detecting viz.  What else was I missing. My forgetfulness might have
serious repercussions.

Kearsarge currently lived at 17 Dollar Bay Drive. I raised my
eyebrows.  That is a fancy address. Dollar Bay is an exclusive
neighborhood in the Upper Nile section of Ptolemy City. It borders on
Torch Lake. I brought up the aerial view of that portion of the
city. Indeed! Kearsarge's house -- that is what I said -- a
stand-alone house faced Torch Lake. A view from the lake showed a
large house with a dock and several boats docked there. I was
definitely dealing with the upper echelons of Ptolemy City society.

Her financials bore this out. There was no indication of where her
money came from. Not surprising. Ptolemy City is a wide open
environment for doing practically anything.

Two things surprised me:

1. Kearsarge was a runner. Not a star runner -- those Pantherans who
   pilot star ships like my X-partner. She ran on her feet and
   competed in marathons. In fact, she was scheduled to run in the
   Olympics in two days. Kearsarge competed both on Hypatia and in the
   Coalition. She was rated in the top ten. Lately, she had slipped
   from number three to number eight. None of the commentators knew
   why. There was a lot of speculation surrounding the death of her
   husband. Although his assassination was known locally, the
   Coalition experts had no idea about the cause of Samuel Mudd's death.

2. Kearsarge was not from Hypatia. I always assumed people were,
   especially younger people. It took a lot of money to travel to and
   live well here.

At the end of the report, the background service offered to provide me
with more information of Kearsarge's life inside the Coalition. This
was an additional fee that was quite steep.

I considered. Kearsarge had lived in Ptolemy City for the last four
years. Would I need to go back further than this?

I decided to forgo collecting more information at this point in my
investigation. If I needed to go back farther I would. Otherwise, it
was likely to be information I did not need to know about another
human being's life and therefore a waste of money. Her schooling was
probably not important nor the names of her parents. Curiously,
Kearsarge only seemed to have this one name. But maybe that was an
Hypatian affectation and a promotional gambit for her running.

This turned out to be a deadly decision on my part.

As I finished the remains of my dinner, I wondered how it was that
Kearsarge found me on the Valley of Kings outside of the Galactic
Diner.  Was it simply that Dad had said I frequented the place? It was
a simple enough explanation but was it the correct one? And why did
someone who lived at 17 Dollar Bay Drive frequent a hole in the wall
like the Elwood Diner off of Lower Nile Street? Another affectation?
Or did she do some sort of business there? She certainly had roamed
far afield to get there.

Samuel Cornelius Mudd's background check arrived, confirming his death
by blaster seven weeks ago. Emily Dickinson executed the contract. I
knew him slightly. He was a friend and former lover of Captain Star
Runner. Would I ever be rid of Star?

I was surprised Emily Dickinson was back in town. I recalled him
saying he would never come back here.

Mudd was a manager in charge of mining operations on Mark Antony, the
larger of Hypatia's moons. He had been brought in to streamline
operations there four years ago, hence the couple's move here. His
salary, although substantial, did not explain the fashionable
residence on Dollar Bay Drive. They would have been comfortable for
sure, but on his compensation the house was out of reach. The
background check confirmed this was their only place of residence in
Ptolemy City.

So what went wrong? Why was Kearsarge receiving death threats and who
was sending them? Why did she have her husband killed?

A case gets under my skin. I need to know the answers. Truthfully, I
am not so much driven by a need for justice as I want to solve the
mystery and see how all the pieces fit together. With the information
now assembled, I wanted to find the rest of the pieces and fit them
together to see the whole picture. Putting my interests before my
client's welfare also proved to be deadly.

Against my better judgment for getting involved in a case which began
with an assassination, I signed the contract. Within seconds
thirty-five percent of the fee reached my account and one week of
expense money followed shortly thereafter.

I was gainfully employed.

I sent a notice to the Governing Board advising them that I should be
listed as a private investigator. This gave me some privileges and
some responsibilities. For example, if I killed someone in self
defense, public reference to me would be suppressed. This was not
comforting. I did not want to be in a situation where I deemed such
drastic action necessary. The Governing Board did have jurisdiction
should a dispute between me and investigated parties. I would need to
tread softly. The rich and famous in the Pharaoh Star System do not
like to be investigated.

I definitely needed
another meeting with Kearsarge. For one thing, I did not have a copy
of the messages she was receiving. And for another thing, I thought
some background on her marriage and what prompted the assassination
would be useful.

I sent the request. As with the contract, the message arrived
promptly.  Unfortunately, Kearsarge said she could not meet with me
until her marathon run was over. However, she could meet me at the
Elwood Diner the following morning after the race for breakfast.

Always more questions. Did the folks at the Elwood Diner know who she
was? Or like me, were they oblivious of her identity. Would anything
change after the marathon on Thursday?

As Hypatia's rotation turned Ptolemy City away from Pharaoh,
Cleopatra, the smaller moon, began to rise. Lights came on all around
the lake and the glow from Hypatia's volcanoes intensified against the
night sky.

As I looked skyward, I wondered where Captain Star Runner was
tonight. Would I ever stop thinking about that fuchsia-colored
Pantheran? 

-----
