#+TITLE: In Which I Renew My Acquaintance with Emily Dickinson 
#+AUTHOR: Rill Online
#+HTML_LINK_HOME:[[file:/index.html][Home]] 
#+HTML_LINK_UP: [[file:kearsarge.org][Kearsarge]]]]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil
#+KEYWORDS: Ronnie Camberwell
#+KEYWORDS: Captain Star Runner
#+KEYWORDS: mystery
#+KEYWORDS: science fiction

-----
* I Renew My Acquaintance with Emily Dickinson

Emily Dickinson agreed to see me the following afternoon. I grabbed a
Caravan, a driverless compartment which travels the city. The
particular caravan which came by the Womyn's Cooperative Housing
Authority was a called a gazelle, the smallest compartment, which
seats two comfortably.

"Shepheard's Hotel," I said, and off I went.

Emily Dickinson told me to meet him at the Nefertiti Bar.

I wondered about this. The last time I saw Emily Dickinson we were on
the Northern Frontier and he had sworn off drink forever. (The
Northern Frontier borders Coalition space. Many people who would
prefer to live outside the Coalition populate planets and space
stations. Although not all -- the Republic of Space and Queen's World,
for example -- of the planets and space stations are loosely linked by
the Alliance of Worlds.

Emily Dickinson operated for many years as a stand up comic and an
assassin. It sounded like an odd combination but he made it
work. Emily Dickinson maintained his moniker was a stage name, but it
was the only one anyone used in Ptolemy City. I remembered his given
name was Eberhardt Dietrich.

"Captain Gyllian Romeres Lujo always called him that," I thought as I
alighted from the Gazelle outside Shepheard's Hotel.

"Colonel Gyllian Romeres Lujo," I corrected myself. "It's Star who
continues to call her 'Captain'."

Star and Emily Dickinson were lovers once. But that was a long while
back before I knew either of them personally.

"But then, that was when you first saw Star," I reminded myself,
"prancing across the hotel lobby, a long filmy scarf tied about the
fuchsia-colored Pantheran's neck. Star was breath-taking, tail held
high, ears up and pointing straight forward, whiskers quivering.

"Stop that," I told myself severely. "It's over. You have a job to do.
You need to focus on Emily Dickinson right now. Stop wallowing in the
past."

I walked purposefully across the marble-colored floor toward the
Nefertiti Bar, pushed the door open -- none opening doors are
certainly an affectation -- and stepped inside the coolness and the
darkened room.

Darkness, the theory ran, made a bar intimate and perhaps even
romantic.  A bar in the early afternoon on a weekday was none of these
things. It was a place for people to drink, especially people with
drinking problems or nothing else to do or both.

"OR," I told myself sourly, "people who wanted to talk to those people."

Emily Dickinson was easy to spot at the bar. His bulk spread toward
the bar stools on either side of him. I squeezed onto the chair next
to him.

"Gregory," Emily Dickinson said to the bartender, "give the little lady a
drink."

I cringed inside. I am neither little or, in my humble opinion, a
lady.

"I'll have a club with a twist of lime," I said.

"That's all?" Emily Dickinson asked. He sounded affronted by my
choice.

"I'm working," I said. No need to go into the fact I choose not to
drink at all.

"But you're aren't on the force anymore," Emily Dickinson said, a touch
of question in his voice.

"No," I said, "I'm a private investigator right now."

"Put her drink on my tab," Emily Dickinson told Gregory. His tone was magnanimous.

"Sure thing," Gregory said.

"And I'll have another."

Gregory set another glass down next to the almost full one in front of
the big man.

"So, Detective, you wanted to talk to me," Emily Dickinson said.

"Yes," I said, "but I'm not a detective anymore."

"Now I'm willing to wager that pussy cat of yours will continue to
call you Detective Ronnie Camberwell." Emily Dickinson spoke in his
deep gravely voice.

"Star and I dissolved our partnership," I said, having difficulty
keeping the stiffness out of my voice. After all, I wanted Emily
Dickinson to open up to me.

"That's what I heard," Emily Dickinson said, "but I didn't know what
else to call you."

"Ronnie will be fine," I said, taking a sip of my drink through the
straw after having put the lime slice into the fizzy water.

"OK, Ronnie, how can I help you?"

Emily Dickinson seemed to be quite affable today. I remember him as
surly and unwilling to talk to me when I questioned him as a police
detective. I doubted my relationship with Star would not have softened
Emily Dickinson up. What was his angle? What did he want.

"I want to talk to you about the contract you signed with Kearsarge,"
I said.

"Kearsarge?" Emily Dickinson considered the name.

"The contract concerning her husband Samuel Mudd," I prompted.

"My memory isn't what it used to be," Emily Dickinson confided. "I may
need some help to remember what you want to know."

I started to say, "The man you assassinated seven weeks ago," but
stopped myself before speaking this thought aloud. The information was
not free. Emily Dickinson wanted some sort of payment.

"What would help you remember?" I asked, wondering if I was willing to
pay. Emily Dickinson's sexual escapades were legendary.

"A small thing," Emily Dickinson said. "The matter of my bar tab, if
you could settle that with Gregory while I ransack my memory for
details--"

I saw Gregory hide a smirk.

Emily Dickinson's drinking was also legendary. Even so, I struggled to
keep from showing my astonishment at the amount. My expense report
would look very interesting. No wonder Emily Dickinson had ordered a
second drink and put my drink on his tab.

I paid.

"Thank you very kindly," Emily Dickinson said. "I am much
obliged. Since returning to Ptolemy City, it has been difficult to get
re-established.  You're probably finding it slow-going yourself."

I decided to ignore this last remark and his effusive thanks. Clearly
Emily Dickinson should not be drinking. The amount of his tab
demonstrated that. I knew the terms of the assassination contract. He
was paid well. I also suspected his lived somewhere off of Lower Nile
Street in one of the tiny one-room flats. His money could have lasted
him for years if he chose to be careful with it. He had not.

"Kearsarge's contract," I said again.

Emily Dickinson turned his glass in his hand and seemed to be
searching for an answer in its depths.

Finally he asked, "What is your interest?"

"I am her private investigator," I said. I did not have to give
anything away for free either.

"And your interest in our contract is--"

"She is receiving unusual death threats," I said. "I am wondering if
your contract with her may be at the root of these threats."

Emily Dickinson continued to swirl his drink.

"She is a public figure," Emily Dickinson said. "Perhaps one of her
opponents in the marathon is hoping she will withdraw from the race."

"I doubt the threats would be so graphic," I said, remembering how
gruesome and explicit they were. "Besides," I said, "they wouldn't be
signed 'Love, Sam'."

"No, I suppose not," Emily Dickinson said, putting down his drink very
carefully. He did not slur his words. I could not think
of a time when he did.

"It was a sad business," Emily Dickinson began. "They were a striking
couple, I'm told. They would come here to Shepheard's Hotel when they first came
to Ptolemy City. She was a rising star in the sports world and dressed
in all the latest fashions. He was always conservatively dressed. I
heard things. He was a good manager of the mines -- nothing
spectacular, you understand, but competent. He cleaned up some problem
they were having and ran the business quite profitably. And then ..."
he trailed off.

"And then," I prompted.

"I don't know," Emily Dickinson said.

"I don't believe you," I said flatly. "You do know. This has been
quite a build up -- the young active couple comes to town, both rising
stars.  They buy a fancy house with an even fancier address. And then
she has him killed. Something happened."

Emily Dickinson sighed heavily. "I'm getting too old for this," he
said.  "Sam Mudd was a good man by all reports -- at least, he was a
fair man at the mines."

"It he was so unobjectionable, why have him killed," I
questioned. "She didn't like his tie?"

"In Ptolemy City, people have been
getting killed for less."

"What aren't you telling me, Eberhardt?" I  hoped the use of his given name would shake more loose.

"Let's keep this civil, Ronnie, shall we?"

"Emily Dickinson, I just paid your rather substantial bar tab. I
expect to get something useful for my investigation. As far as anyone
here in town knows, no one has put a contract out on Kearsarge yet she
is receiving very gruesome and explicit death threats ostensibly
coming from her dead husband. It sounds like revenge. Who wants her
dead?"

"Probably quite a few people," Emily Dickinson said. His manner was
flippant.

"Because."

"Because she is a spoiled bitch." His tone was tinged with anger and bitterness.

"She didn't strike me that way," I said. "She seemed quite down to
earth and quite responsible."

"She's responsible, all right." Emily Dickinson laughed without any
mirth.  "She is responsible for making her husband's life hell and
then killing him."

"If you dislike her so much, why did you accept the contract?" I
asked.  His evasiveness annoyed me.

"I owed somebody, Ronnie. It's not a part of your investigation, so I
won't go into it. It was an old debt from another time. But it was
called in and I had to come back here and do the deed. I didn't have
to like it. I just had to do it."

I signaled Gregory, the bartender, to give each of us another drink.

I drank my club soda and waited for Emily Dickinson to say more.

"I don't know why you're on this case," Emily Dickinson finally said.
"That's your business. Ptolemy City is a town where people do things
they aren't proud of but they feel they have to do it. We all have our
demons, I suppose, even you, and I think I know who that demon is for
you. I suggest you suck it up and back the contract. Dealing with
Kearsarge will only cause you grief and I mean that seriously. She's
bad news and the farther away from her you can get, the better off you
will be."

"Your candor is appreciated," I said. I believed Emily Dickinson
believed everything he was telling me. But he was not telling me
everything. "But I need a direction. Can you tell me where to look?"

"I really don't know why she killed Mudd killed," Emily Dickinson
said.  "But if you want to stick things out, I would look at Fair
Haven."

"Fair Haven?" I queried. "I never heard of Fair Haven. What is it?"

"I'm not surprised you've never heard of it. It's a member of the
Solar League -- a very unimportant member of the League. But that's
where Kearsarge and Mudd come from. They're royalty or something like
it there. It was an arranged marriage to consolidate one of the
important families. The marriage may have worked for a while, but I
don't think it was working when they came here."

"Infidelity, then," I said.

"More than that," Emily Dickinson said, "though certainly that."

Before I could guard my tongue, I said, "You don't think I have to go
to Fair Haven, do you?"

"Probably not," Emily Dickinson said. "It just might cost you a bit to
get the information. In fact," and here he sounded more optimistic
than he had throughout our conversation, "you might find out more from
afar.  Those particular kind of planets don't like people from the
outside, and you're really from outside. You weren't even born in the
Coalition."

"I am a citizen of the Coalition," I said. It surprised me how
irritated I sounded.

Emily Dickinson waved his hand magnanimously. "I know that,
Ronnie. They even know that. It's the fact that you don't live there
that counts.  You're an outsider from a strange planet beyond the
border."

"Thanks," I said. "I'll take what you said under advisement."

"I like you, Ronnie," Emily Dickinson said, signaling Gregory for yet
another drink.  another tab for me." Then turning to me for the first
time in the conversation, "Be careful, Ronnie. This could be very,
very dangerous."

"I will," I said, sliding off the bar stool though I had no idea what
Emily Dickinson thought was so dangerous.

He was more right than he knew.

I walked quickly back across the lobby and outside. Shepheard's Hotel
fronts on the lake. A wide promenade runs along the water at this
point. I walked around the lake until I found my favorite bench. It was
unoccupied. I sat down and stared out at the water, listening to the
gentle slap of the waves.

"What is Emily Dickinson not telling me and why?" I wondered. "Who
knows? How can I find out?"

It was a question I didn't have an answer to. The more I thought about
it, the more I realized Emily Dickinson was scared. He felt powerless
to change his situation and he knew it was going to kill him. But at
the bottom of his compulsive drinking wasn't just addiction. He was
smart enough to know that and even do something about it. AHis
assassination contract was large enough for him to leave the Pharaoh
Star System. So why was he still here slowly committing suicide?"

"What about the messages? Who can help me with those? Who is sending
them? How? Why?"

In the Pharaoh Star System, everyone is security conscious and everyone
either is or knows a hacker. I was out of touch from my long absence. My
security firm was quite reputable but it was not in their purview to
look at these messages and tell me where they came from and who sent
them. The police were woefully short on techniques and resources. Who
could I possibly contact? And then I knew.

I send a message to that boy I knew in school. He agreed to see me
right away.


I got up from the bench. At least there was someone else to talk
to. Eventually I would talk to the right person. That is what
investigating is all about--finding the right person to talk to.
Someone always knows something. Given enough time, I would find out
what I needed to know. But something told me I was running out of time
and very quickly.


----

[[file:chapter-05.org][Next]]
