#+AUTHOR: Rill Online
#+HTML_LINK_HOME: https://rillonline.github.io 
#+HTML_LINK_UP: [[file:chapter-01.org][Chapter 1]]
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil
#+KEYWORDS: Ronnie Camberwell
#+KEYWORDS: Captain Star Runner
#+KEYWORDS: mystery
#+KEYWORDS: science fiction

-----

* In Which I Receive A Contract

This did not mean, of course, that I was done with Kearsarge. A
contract arrived in my queue before I stepped onto the Lake View Loop
Road which circles Lake Memphis. I pushed the contract onto a
reputable legal service for review. Before I entered the Womyn's
Cooperative Housing Authority (yes, everybody giggles at the words
cooperative and authority occupying equal space in the organization's
name), the contract received a good rating with no warnings
attached. This meant it was quite standard in form. The commentary
spelling out the provisions were easy to read and understand. I
skimmed them quickly.

My co-op is located on the top floor with a splendid view of the
lake. Shepheard's Hotel is directly across from my balcony. The lake
spreads out below with its boats, both real and artificial. Today it
teamed with watercraft and people -- people who appeared, from my
vantage point, to be busily engaged in happy pursuits. I wondered idly
if any of the aquatic Olympic events took place here and if I could
watch them from here.

I chose my co-op with care. From my balcony I can see the lake, the
hotel and its surroundings and look through the dome above all the
Tenderloin to see the Hypatian sky spread out above me. At night, the
lurid colors of the atmosphere are both chilling and magnificent in
their unworldliness. I say this after my travels to more earth-like
planets. The colors of the Hypatian sky are both familiar and
off-putting to me. I can watch the every-changing kaleidoscope for
hours. As inhospitable to human life as the atmosphere is, I would
never want to replace it with another.

I walked out onto the balcony, determined to make something of this
day and not lie about feeling sorry for myself as I had been doing
since I arrived back on Hypatia. I would look at this contract rather
than wallowing in how I screwed up my life.

It was not an assassination contract. That was good. I could not see myself as a professional assassin. They
made good money, but money was not my problem. After our breakup,
I possessed a substantial bank account all carefully invested and
secured. I benefited greatly from Captain Star Runner's obsession with
profitability.I was charged to
investigate the matter and provide, if possible, solutions to
Kearsarge's belief that her life was in danger. If possible, I was to
eliminate any and all threats. That went up to the line of
assassination without crossing it.

I still could not understand why Kearsarge refused to take the
precaution of going to a shelter or making some provision for her
immediate safety. It might take me some time to fulfill this contract
given my lack of cyber skills. Why hadn't she contacted a reputable
hacker? Ptolemy City is full of very credible ones.

I made myself comfortable, adjusting the state-of-the-art force field
to let in some fresh air -- well, not fresh. All the air in the city
is scrubbed and recycled. Nevertheless, breathing the outside air is
often preferable to the local supply in each flat.

I gasped when I read the amount of the contract with thirty-five
percent up front. The amount was several times my annual salary when I
was a police detective.

I needed to file daily reports. Fair enough. She gave me two weeks to
resolve the matter to her satisfaction. If I failed to complete the
contract, I would receive no more compensation but I could keep the
35%. This was incredibly generous.

Who was Kearsarge anyway? I knew Only what
she had told me at the restaurant. A background check was in order
before I committed myself. Perhaps she would not be able to pay me and
entering into the contract would be pointless.

I sent off a query, cringing at the fee. What did Captain Star Runner
always say: You needed to spend money to make money? I needed to be
thorough. Something told me I would not be returning this contract
unsigned. I might just as well spring for the full background check
instead of doing two: a superficial one and an in depth one.

I needed to think critically about what Kearsarge had told me at the
restaurant -- what was the name of that place anyway. I needed to query
my rather ostentatious link. Like all the latest and fashionable ones,
it presented a flower. I activated it with a glance.

"The name of the restaurant off Lower Nile Street -- on Elwood Street,
I think."

"The Elwood Street Diner," the Link responded. A picture appeared in my
visual field. That was it.

"File for future reference," I said aloud. Forming the thought pattern
to save this information required more finesse than I commanded at
this early stage of use. I wondered how Star managed doing this all
the time. It gave me a blinding headache. The verbal commands were so
much easier and less stressful. Ptolemy City was filled with people
conversing with their links.

There. I did it again, comparing my current life with Star's. Star was
out of my life. For all I knew, Star was out of the Orion Spur by now
-- a very long ways away.

I sighed. It was good while it was good. When it stopped being good,
it was, well, excruciatingly painful. I told myself then and I
continue to tell myself now that I am still in love with my memory of
Star at the beginning of our relationship not with the reality of our
relationship at the end. But I digress from this story about
Kearsarge.

What had she told me?

1. She was receiving messages from her dead husband. No, that isn't
   right. She was receiving messages sent in her dead husband's name.

2. Kearsarge did not believe her husband had written these messages
   before he died. She believed someone else was sending them.

3. These messages concerned her death -- a horrible death which
   frightened her very much. I did not know the contents of these
   messages. I would need to know what they said. Maybe there were
   some clues to the living sender in these messages.

4. Kearsarge put out a contract to have her husband assassinated and he was.

5. Kearsarge had refused my suggestion of shelter.

And that was it. Kearsarge presented herself as a self-assured woman
who was terrified.

What was real? What was imagined? How could I investigate? I could not
trace the messages. I did not have the skills to do that. Therefore, I
must assume -- can you put must and assume in the same sentence --
that old-fashioned inquiry was needed to solve this, this -- it was
not a crime, at least not yet.

There are very few criminal statutes on Hypatia. The Pharaoh Star
System lies outside of Coalition space. Originally used by the League
of Hypatian Pirates as a cache for their treasure -- stolen goods
mostly from star ships -- Ptolemy City now is home to the rich and
famous and those who want to be rich and famous. Business can be done
efficiently -- or at least that is the claim. Laws do not get in the
way. As a former police detective, I look on these  assertions with a
jaundiced eye. Ptolemy City is a lawless town. The only laws which are
enforced with any regularity are those which protect the service
workers from being exploited.

At first, there were no such requirements. The business people thought
the service workers were at their mercy and could be compelled to do
any kind of work for very low wages and poor working and living
conditions. After all, these people could not afford to leave the
planet and return to Coalition space. However, lawlessness works both
ways. After a few deaths of some powerful folks, the two sides adopted
a mutually agreed upon Â covenant. It functions fairly well most of
the time. The service workers get decent accommodations and wages. The
rich and famous get waited upon. The service workers can expect to be
protected from harm and the rich and famous get to do whatever they
want to each other while not exploiting the service workers. As a
police detective, I was part of the service workers. Now I had no
particular status.

"If I complete this contract," I thought, "I might be considered part
of the very lowest echelon of the rich and famous."

Of course, many people are neither rich and famous nor service
workers. These are the people who work for the rich and famous either
directly or indirectly. The League of Hypatian Pirates perform many
useful functions while operating entirely outside the law. To get this
dubious privilege, (I am speaking here as a former police detective),
one must be a member of the League. All sorts of riffraff belongs to
the League. Was I dealing with these folks? If so, my former
association with Captain Star Runner might prove very useful.

The preliminary background check of Kearsarge arrived later in the
afternoon. I read it with interest. Kearsarge was not the woman I
thought she was.


-----
