Chapter Three (Christabel)
---------------------------

En Route to Planet X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Planet X lies in a region of space which has no definite affiliation.
Any star map will show that Planet X could be in the Space Traders
Guild. The star systems that align with Space Trader sentiments are in
close proximity to one another. Traditionally, as far as the records I
can find show, Planet X has never been associated with the Space
Traders Guild. 

Another possibility for association is the Empire of the Rain Sky. At
different times in its long history Planet X's star system would have
been well inside its territorial borders. However, I could not find
any references to it there either.

Lystran records do speak of Planet X, but not as part of the Lystran
Empire. The Lystran Empire did not extend as far as Planet X's star
system at any time in its documented history.

As for Planet X itself, its history is poorly documented. I find this
surprising as record keeping is something the Empire of the Rainbow
Sky and Lystra are quite diligent about. Empires usually are. Empires
spawn huge bureaucracies which delight in keeping track of everything.
Its job security for a lot of people. Lystra and the Empire of the
Rainbow Sky are no different from the Pantherans, the Featherote
Charm, the Fungusian Network or the Solar League. They keep records. 

I exist to correlate all the data I can access. (I really wish Ronnie
would let me correlate all the data she possesses but I suppose that
is an unrealistic rule coded into my instruction set. But then, the
Fungusian Network is all about the data.) I understand Captain Star
Runner. I do not understand Ronnie Camberwell. Perhaps it is because
we do not share mind space.

Back to Planet X ...

I looked up the history for Planet X's name. Not surprisingly, there
were many explanations, but the one that makes the most sense is that
Planet X's real designation is a sacred word. Sacred to whom or what I
could not determine. To say the sacred name aloud is blasphemy. So
people started to refer to it as Planet X.

Perhaps at one time there were other settlements on Planet X for
worship or whatever sacred rites were practiced on the sacred planet,
but right now there was only one vast hotel on the top of a very high
mountain. The hotel was Captain Star Runner and Ronnie Camberwell's destination.
