Chapter Four: It Was A Dark and Stormy Night  (Captain Star Runner)
-----------------------

Planet X: Evening
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"It was a dark and stormy night."

"That is a cliché."

I hate it when Christabel edits my narratives.

"But it is a cliché," Christabel insists.

"I cannot help that," I say. "It was a dark and stormy night when we
arrived on Planet X."

"Maybe you could find other words to say the same thing," Christabel
suggests.

"Then you write the narrative," I say.

"You do not have to fluff up over the opening sentence of your
narrative," Christabel says. "Just find some more words to describe
our arrival on Planet X."

"Okay," I say. "How about this:

I rarely land my ride planet side. It is capable of such a landing. I am
capable of executing such a landing. However, my general work is
running my ride from one space station to another with occasional
transfers of cargo between rides in space. 

We arrived during planet night for the spaceport. The atmosphere was
disturbed by a local thunderstorm. It was quite severe. Great arcs of
lighting pulsed through the sky. Rain poured down onto the ground.  

The so-called spaceport was no such thing. It was a landing area with
several small outbuildings. These looked more like sheds than hangers
or passenger facilities. I shivered and hoped I would not need to make
any repairs. I had landed my ride only using an auto beacon.
Apparently anyone who came to Planet X needed to be a skilled runner
or had lots of practice with this landing area.

When I shut the landing engines down, we could hear the rain and wind
outside.

I do not like going planet side. I am a creature of space and to be
honest, the out-of-doors scares me. I hide it of course. The members
of the Race have a proud history of conquering the first the savannas
of our home world and then moving on to the less hospitable areas of
Panthera. Nevertheless, I was anxious to stay inside my ride until the
storm passed.

But Ronnie was anxious to get to the hotel and check on her charges. I
steeled myself for the unpleasantness of going outside.

To my astonishment, a conveyance was waiting for us when I went to the
hatch. When I slid the hatch open, we could exit the ride and make
ourselves comfortable in the conveyance without going outside and more
important to me, without getting wet.

When Christabel closed the hatch, the conveyance started to move. I
wondered where we were going. 

A voice said: "Welcome to Planet X. Your shuttle will take you to the
funicular where you will board to be taken to your hotel. This ends
this announcement."

The voice did not speak again even when we arrived at one of the
nondescript sheds. Doors opened for us and we settled ourselves in
another vehicle. Fortunately, our luggage followed us and all doors
waited to close for the luggage to come on board.

"This is very Erie," I said.

"So far, we are making all our connections," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said.

I liked it that she was a detective again. I think the title suits her
very well.

I am genetically engineered for space and weightless conditions. Our
sixteen-day run from Half Moon Bay had all been done with the least
gravity Detective Ronnie Camberwell can handle without nausea or
vertigo. We were not at all acclimated to Planet X's gravity. I was
totally unprepared for the journey up the side of the mountain.
Fortunately for me, my ancestry made it possible for me to adjust to
the climb. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was not so fortunate. She
grabbed hold of the conveniently placed grab bars and just hung on. I
wondered how anyone withstood the trip down the mountain. I supposed
we would find out when it was time to leave. Even I was not looking
forward to making the descent.

The funicular moved quickly but even so, the trip took over two hours.
I was certain Ronnie would be exhausted. She did not speak the whole
time. Neither did I. What was there to say?

When we reach the top and were on level ground, another conveyance
brought us underneath an enormous roofed area. I remembered the large
portico in the image Christabel showed us. We walked toward the large
imposing doors shut against the dark and stormy night.

As we approached, they swung open silently to admit us. We stepped
through. The doors closed silently. It was as if we were the only
people on the planet and the machinery was still in working order.

I expected the hotel to smell of rot and age. It did not. The air was
clean and fresh. The rugs underneath my paws were thick and clean.
There was no sign of decay anywhere. The lobby on Shepheard's Hotel in
Ptolemy City,
the grandest hotel I had ever seen, seemed small in comparison to this
lobby. Unlike that lobby, this one was totally empty and silent.

Ronnie and I had not exchanged a word. It seemed like to do so would
violate the silence of this place. Was this part of its sacred nature?
I remembered then that Christabel had said the name of Planet X was
sacred but there was no evidence that any sacred places existed on the
planet or that any rites had been performed there. The planet's
purpose was a mystery except that plants and animals lived there. No
intelligent life forms had ever been found. The plants and animals who
lived on the surface and in the oceans were not particularly vicious
and there was no record of any people being attacked. More or less, it
was safe if unoccupied.

We walked toward the hotel desk. Detective Ronnie Camberwell steadied
herself by laying her hand on my shoulder. The plush of the rug made
it difficult for her to keep her balance after the ride up in the
funicular.

"They did not have automatic check in?" I asked.

"No," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "The instructions said to go
to the desk."

"No one is there," I said.

"Perhaps there is a screen," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. 

Detective Ronnie Camberwell sounded doubtful. Detective Ronnie
Camberwell sounded very tired and a little bit scared. I was tired,
too, and definitely unnerved by the silence. I kept listening, but I
heard only the wind and rain outside. The thunder was intermittent.
That meant the lightning persisted though we could not see it from
inside the lobby.

On the desk stood a sign--a printed sign. It read: RING FOR SERVICE.
Next to the printed sign was a bell. Detective Ronnie Camberwell
reached out and touched the bell. Its pleasant peal filled the lobby
with sound.

"How quaint," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

"I have read about such signs and such bells in old terry stories," I
said. "I would not think any terries have ever been here except you."

"I've read that humanoid technology is very much the same from one
race to another," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I wonder if this
bell does anything."

We looked around. The desk was large and made of beautiful wood. We
saw no indication of how we could ascertain our room assignment.
Perhaps we should just claim one. Except for the people Detective
Ronnie Camberwell had come to protect, there probably was not anyone
else here.

The door behind the desk opened and someone came slowly toward the
desk. By its movements, I realized it was a mechanical object--a
robot. I had read about robots, but I had never seen one.

It said, "Welcome to Hotel Vista Incredible. How may I serve you?"

Its voice was understandable but quite gravely.

"I am Ronnie Camberwell," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "This is
my companion Captain Star Runner. We made a reservation."

"I have a record of your reservation, detective," the robot said. "You
and Captain Star Runner have the Mountain View Suite on Level Five.
Please take the lift to that level and proceed to your left. Room
service is available at all times. Please let us know how else we may
serve you."

And with that invitation, the robot reversed its steps and exited the
lobby through the same door behind the desk it had just come through.

For a few seconds Detective Ronnie Camberwell and I stood there in
silence.

"Why did we have to come to the desk for that?" Detective Ronnie
Camberwell asked. "We could have been sent that message."

"I believe we were scanned," I said. 

"Scanned? How do you know that?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked.

"Through my AI relay," I said. "Did you notice that the robot called
you Detective?"

"Yes," Detective Ronnie  Camberwell said. "So much for my wanting to
operate anonymously."

"You probably still can," I said. "I doubt that robot is much of a conversationalist." 
   
