


Chapter Five: A Scream in the Night
=====================================

Planet X, Hotel Vista Incredible: evening local time
----------------------------------------------------

We used the lift. We could have gone up the staircase, but our luggage
could not have followed. I have never walked up five flights of
stairs. I will have to try going up and down this staircase before I
leave Hotel Vista Incredible. The staircase is broad with elaborately
carved banisters and newel posts. It rises from the lobby floor two
whole stories until it disappears behind a wall. A long balcony or
gallery runs across the lobby. Rooms on the upper floors open to this
open area. 

Our vista suite also opened onto one of these galleries. When we found
the appropriate door, there was no palm lock or scanner. Instead there
was a metal plate with another metal rod sticking out of it. We both
studied this for some time.

"Christabel says this is a key," I announced. "We are to turn it."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell was far more suited to turning the key
with her hand than I was with my paw. I would need to practice the
movement so I could come and go as I pleased.

When we stepped into the spacious main room, we understood why the
hotel was called Hotel Vista Incredible and why this was a Vista
Suite.
Many structures of unknown purpose line the unnamed river. It is
believed more structures lie amidst the mountains. The exact date and
extent of these structures is unknown, but archaeologists theorize
that the people who once occupied Planet X built them for their
royalty. They also theorize they once held great treasures, but the
treasures are no longer present."

"That sounds like a familiar story," Detective Ronnie Camberwell
commented.

"What do you mean?" I asked.

"People stole the treasure a long time ago," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said. "The only artifacts that are left are those things
they couldn't pack up and move."

"That appears to be correct," Christabel said.

Christabel spoke to us through the mini AI regulator integrated into
the skin just above my collar bone. It regulated my biological systems
when I was away from my ride and contained a very small subset of
information I could access if I found myself beyond Christabel's
communication range. While I was in range, Christabel could use the AI
to interface with my biological systems and exchange data with me. It
was sometimes slow and usually very frustrating, but it allowed me to
leave my ride on such outings as this one.


The opposite wall of the main room was entirely clear. Beyond it was
an open-air balcony. Beyond that was the view.

The ground fell away steeply to a valley. Across the valley were
mountains--range after range of mountains. We both gasped. It was like
standing in mid air with the valley far below us. 

We could see all of this because of flood lights strategically placed. Some
glinted off what must be water far below in the valley. Later we were
to learn this was a river.

Christabel found literature describing the scene.

"These are the sacred mountains and valley of the Chukquirey,"
Christabel narrated. "Little is known about what the Chukquirey is--a
people, a deity, a belief, a state of being. People came to the Hotel
Vista Incredible to imbibe the chukquirey. By imbibe they meant drink
in or embody the chukquirey.  

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self
          How can Detective Ronnie Camberwell and Captain Star Runner
	  see anything if it is a dark and stormy night. Perhaps it
	  would be better to find another way for them to experience
	  the incredible vistas while not yet seeing it for
	  themselves. It is important for them to understand their
	  balcony is the only thing between them and a precipitous
	  drop to the valley floor. The Hotel Vista Incredible is both
	  breath-taking in its views and very dangerous.

While I processed the information Christabel placed into our shared
memory, Detective Ronnie Camberwell stepped into an alcove along one
wall.

"What are you doing?" I asked.

"Exploring the kitchen," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I think I
can order us a meal.A"

I checked with Christabel. A meal would be in order.

"Do you have to prepare it?" I asked. This hotel seemed so antiquated
I was beginning to think it had been a mistake to come here.

"No," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I just have to figure out the
instructions. Please come here. Perhaps you or  Christabel can read
them more clearly than I can. My basic language skills are pretty good
but these are not written by a native speaker."

They certainly were not. Together we puzzled them out, pressed the
appropriate buttons, twists the appropriate knobs and basically pushed,
pulled, twisted and slid controls until hot steaming trays of food
appeared. We ordered too much food or we reordered food we had already
selected. Detective Ronnie Camberwell said there was a way to preserve
the food and reheat it later so we ate as much as we wanted and stored
the rest. Christabel, as usual, tut-tutted about what I ate. My mini
AI was not as well equipped as Christabel was to adjust my biochemical
levels. I felt quite uncomfortable when I was finished eating.
Christabel said my stomach was over filled and I was feeling stuffed.
That was quite a good adjective to describe the feeling. I promptly
curled up on the floor and went to sleep.

Hotel Vista Incredible: Evening Local Time: Ronnie Narrates
-----------------------------------------------------------

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

          The headings in this novel are all screwed up. I won't take
	  the time right now to fix them but I definitely need a
	  better system than what I have here.

I watched Captain Star Runner sleep. She has no idea, I think, that I
love to watch her sleep. Star Runner curls herself up into a very
tight circle, her nose in between her paws, her tail tucked alongside
her paws and chin. She makes little snuffling noises. When she dreams,
her paws and ears twitch. Her nose scents the air. 

I know Pantherans, Members of the Race, do not like to be referred to
as cats, but sleeping on the rug, Captain Star Runner looked very much
like a cat--a very big cat, but a cat all the same.

I knew I should figure out where my charges were in the building and
check in on them. I just did not have the energy. I am not a good
space traveler. The descent through the atmosphere had been
harrowing. I could feel the spaceship buffeted by the intense winds.
The landing had been bumpy. The landing area was in poor repair. All
the conveyances we had used, the transport to the funicular, the
funicular itself and the transfer to the hotel's portico were all
ramshackle. They lurched, bumped and swayed mercilessly. I was sure
throughout the entire two-hour ride up the mountainside that the train
would come tumbling down the rails and kill us both. I was fearful
about descending the mountain. The ascent had been terrifying.

The meal was excellent. I ate not anything approaching the quantity
that Star Runner ate, but I was just about as content as she was.

I must have drifted off where I sat in one of the overstuffed chairs
near the clear wall overlooking the valley and the mountain ranges
beyond because I jerked awake. Captain Star Runner was on her feet,
all her fur puffed out.

"What?" I asked.

"A scream," Captain Star Runner said. "A human scream if I am not
mistaken."

My stomach clenched. One of my charges, no doubt, and here I was
asleep in a chair after a hearty meal.

I got to my feet.

"I have to go," I said.

"I will come with you," Star Runner said.

"No," I said.

"Yes," she said.

"You can't--" I began.

"Yes, I can protect us," Captain Star Runner said.

There was no point in arguing with her. It would be quicker to just
go.

"I think you will find the room in question on the third level,"
Christabel said through Star Runner's gem.

It seemed as good an idea as any.

I threw open our door and hurried to the staircase. I could take the
steps two at a time with my long legs and hurried along the gallery. I
did not bother to close or lock our door.. If Star Runner thought of
it, she could struggle with the key. I certainly had no interest or
time to fiddle with such an archaic contraption. It might be artful.
It might be quaint. But it was certainly inconvenient and a nuisance.

Star Runner followed behind more slowly. If I had given it any
thought, I knew she would have liked to jump from landing to landing
in a grand gesture of Pantheran agility and skill. Fortunately, the
mini AI backed by Christabel prevailed. Flamboyant gestures can be
well-executed. They can also be foolish and dangerous. Captain Star
Runner was not used to this gravity and had not trained in normal G
situations. Her acrobatics aboard her spaceship were impressive but
they were performed at either 0G or close to it. Her excellent muscle
tone was maintained through Christabel's ministrations. Members of the
Race believed in both healthy bodies and healthy minds. Even so, Star
Runner was well-advised to precede with caution when it came to stairs
designed for humanoids.

Light emerged from underneath one door along the gallery. I ran toward
it. Fortunately, it was unlocked. I threw it open.

This was not one of the vista suites. In fact, it was hardly more than
a closet. A young man was kneeling alongside a young woman. She was
not moving. He was saying her name over and over again. "Suri."
"Suri." "Suri." She was not moving.

"Is she dead?" I asked, still standing in the doorway.

The young man was startled. He looked up at me with fear.

"I'm Ronnie Camberwell," I said. "Is Suri dead?"

"I don't know," the young man said. "I don't know how to tell."

"What happened?" I asked, not moving from the doorway.

"I heard a scream," he said. "I came into the room. She was like
this."

"And you are?" I asked.

"Heracles. Heracles Beja."

Well, here were the two people I came here to protect. One of them
might be dead.

"Are you the only ones in the room?" I asked.

"I don't know," he said, looking wildly around. "Do you think there's
someone else here?"

"She screamed for a reason," I said.

I was unarmed. Hotel regulations prohibited weapons. I needed to do a
search.

No one else was in the tiny room. And Suri was dead.
