Chapter Six: Down in the Valley
-------------------------------

Planet X: The next day
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		          Some way of denoting time is necessary. The
			  next day may not be sufficient.
			  Alternatively, I can delete any reference to
			  place and time and just go with chapter
			  numbers and names if possible.

To keep it simple, I will summarize what happened during the rest of evening.

1. The robot concierge confirmed that the two archeology students,
   Detective Ronnie Camberwell and I were the only ones registered at
   the Hotel Vista Incredible. The robot concierge additionally
   confirmed that we were the only living beings in the hotel.

2. This left Detective Ronnie Camberwell weighing the possibility that
   Heracles Beja had killed Suri Iglesia, but after questioning the living
   archeology student, Detective Ronnie Camberwell believed him when
   he said 	he had not killed Suri Iglesia. What reason, he asked
   reasonably, would he have to kill her. They had worked together for
   two standard years on their project. They were both concerned what
   their impact their findings would have on the archaeological
   community in the primary arm and had reached out for protection.
   They did not stand to profit either academically or financially from their research and their conclusions, so he would have no reason to eliminate a potential competitor.

3. The robot concierge also confirmed that no one else had come to
   the Hotel Vista Incredible during the last two standard years.

4. The robot concierge removed Suri Iglesia's body. It said it would be
   reserved indefinitely.

5. Detective Ronnie Camberwell decided Heracles Beja should move into
   our Vista Incredible suite. I could take up a guard position by the
   door to the gallery. To my way of thinking, this also meant that I
   was between Detective Ronnie Camberwell's sleeping chamber (That is
   what the Hotel Vista Incredible called it.) and Heracles Beja. I
   did not trust him as the exchange which follows shows.


"Heracles Beja had to have killed Suri Iglesia," I told Detective
   Ronnie Camberwell early the next morning. "He is the only one that
   could have done it."

"But it makes no sense for him to do that," Detective Ronnie
   Camberwell insisted.

"If you eliminate the impossible," I quoted, "Then you are left
   with the truth no matter how improbable it may seem." I was very
   proud to produce this quotation from Sherlock Holmes at the proper
   time.

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		             Check the accuracy of the quotation. It
			     does not sound exactly right.

"That's 			     fiction, Star. I believe
Heracles. There has to be something I'm missing here. Suri screamed.
Something frightened her before she died."

"Or Suri Iglesia was in pain."

I was pleased with myself for my contribution. I was convinced
Heracles Beja was the killer from the time I saw him kneeling over Suri
Nam's body. I did not know what his motivation was. It just was the
simplest explanation possible. That is Occam's razor. I had read about
that, too. I could not understand why Detective Ronnie Camberwell
could not see it.

.. ADMONITION:: Note to Self

		If the first chapter tells of how Heracles is about to kill Ronnie, then it is no secret to the reader who killed Suri. Star Runner can narrate its convictions without spoiling the plot to that point. However, for the reader to believe Ronnie's refusal to believe that Heracles did it, she needs a plausible explanation for disbelief now and in the future.

		Ah! The oldest trick in the book, maybe literally. If Heracles is the one who is killed, then Ronnie can be taken in by Suri's vulnerability and attractiveness. The scream can be hers, made up to convince Ronnie of some mysterious stranger or thing that killed Heracles. She can weave a story about it that Ronnie believes but Star Runner does not.

		This has the advantage of creating tension between Ronnie and Star Runner, a convenient state of affairs to any reader of the story arc. These two are both attracted to one another and yet they are chronically attracted to others. Star does not like Suri Iglesia and does not trust her. Ronnie is sexually attracted to Suri Iglesia and struggles to be both professional and monogamous with Star Runner.  
		

Usually it is I who goes off believing things to be different than
they really are. I have made many mistakes of this kind though I have
ironclad explanations for why I was so badly misled in the first
place.  

"I still do not like it," I said.

"That is your prerogative." Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

I had to leave it there.

Planet X: The next day
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Suri Iglesia was adamant that we visit a particular ancient structure
on the valley floor. I was not eager to repeat our descent down the
mountain. Suri Iglesia said we would not take the funicular. There was
a maglif tram.

What she did not tell us was how we were to get to the tram.

A large basket lowered us down the sheer face of the cliff on which
Hotel Vista Incredible perched. My only comfort was knowing that if
one of the cables snapped, Suri Iglesia would also be killed. As a
Member of the Race, I am not bothered by heights and my genetic
engineering makes me indifferent to orientations in weightless
environments. Detective Ronnie Camberwell, on the other hand, clung
desperately onto the provided poles, huddling her large body on the
floor as she did so. Detective Ronnie Camberwell closed her eyes. So
much for providing protection during the long drop. As a result, she
missed the credible vistas. I believe the Hotel Vista Incredible
literature called these views bird's eye and referred to them as
spellbinding. I would not know. I have nothing to compare them to.  

After The Drop, we boarded a tram. For a long time we switchbacked
up and down the mountainsides until we reached a depot on the valley floor.

incredible. With no other living beings planet side, all this equipment
continued to be maintained. Suri Iglesia selected a wheeled vehicle
and we bounced along a roadway Suri Iglesia referred to as the River
Walk. I did not comment on the strangeness of riding in a vehicle on a
road called a walk.

"Do you see those mounds along the river?" Suri Iglesia asked, waving
her arm at no particular mound but taking in all of the area we
passed.

Detective Ronnie Camberwell replied in the affirmative.

"Heracles and I investigated a number of them. We believe there was a
raised walkway along the river. Pedestrians could go into many
structures along the way."

"Where they houses?"

"Possibly. We thought they might bee eating establishments or other
facilities that attended to travelers. We think the structures I am
taking you to may have been for worship. Pilgrims came here and needed
food, rest and recreation."

"What about the Hotel Vista Incredible?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell
asked.

"That may have been for more affluent visitors," Suri Iglesia said as
she swerved violently to avoid a pothole.

"But your room was tiny," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

"Agreed. Yours is much nicer. However, the People who stayed in those
cubbyholes could use the hotel's facilities and they only had to go to
the observation lounges to see the views. That's a small price to pay
for those views. Heracles and I speculated that there was some value
in the views themselves. Perhaps just looking out at the views
enhanced your virtue or gave you some special spiritual insights."

"Or maybe," Detective Ronnie Camberwell put in, "just having the gumption to go up that mountain
gave you spiritual credits."

"Could be." Suri Iglesia sounded noncommittal. Perhaps Detective Ronnie
Camberwell's remarks did not fit into Suri Iglesia's vision and
thereby was discounted. Suri Iglesia definitely liked to be in charge
and now there was no one to dispute with her opinions. I wondered how
long it would be before *Heracles and I* was replaced with *I*.

We stepped inside one of the stone structures on the other side of the
avenue from the slowly flowing river. It was cool and dark and smelled
occupied.

"This is where Heracles and I have been working," Suri Iglesia explained,
lighting the interior.

The room had a vaulted ceiling. The doorways leading from it were both
high and wide like the one we had entered.

"We speculate the people who built these structures were larger than
we are." Suri Iglesia continued her explanation. "It is commonly held that
these structures were some sort of religious shrines, possibly for the
dead or they were concerned with an after life. Other structures have vast
murals in very poor condition so we can't fully follow the story line." 


"All this has been documented for some time," I said, pulling
information from my mini AI which was being updated constantly by
Christabel. Christabel had been able to patch into communication
satellites that ringed the planet. Why Planet X had such a
sophisticated and state-of-the-art communication arrays was a mystery
to both of us. There was something going on here that was not obvious.

Suri Iglesia gave me a pitying look.

"That is what is said officially."

I waited for Suri Iglesia to enlighten us while Detective Ronnie
Camberwell kept looking around as if the explanation would walk
through one of the doorways.

"I made extensive tests of the paint on these figures." Suri Iglesia
pointed to a long line of figures walking along the avenue. They
looked very familiar to me but I could not quite remember. That is the
problem with the mini AI. It has tables of memories stored back on my
ride. I need to send a request to Christabel to access them and send
them back. There is a bit of a delay in this process. I am just
grateful it works at all. Without this methodology of retrieving my
memories, I would be knowing I knew something without actually knowing
it.


Then Christabel got back to me. The figures in the mural were
trollolu, a race that had not existed for twenty thousand years.

I marveled that Detective Ronnie Camberwell did not recognize the
reptilian race. We had seen pictures of them in the Prince Hat Star
System where my dear friend Tamara had been working
on an archaeological dig. In our adventure which I chronicled in
*Landscape of Thorns*, we learned the Trollolu were an ancient, now
extinct, race who had trained the Members of the Race, The Featherote
Charm and the Fungusian Network. They had been annihilated by a race
which called itself Followers of the Stars. The Followers of the Star
were contemporaries of the Empire of the Rainbow Sky, one of the
oldest races here in the Primary Arm. The Trollolu and the Followers
of the Stars lived in the western spiral arm where both Detective
Ronnie Camberwell and I came from. 

Bottom line: What were pictures of the Trollolu doing in this
structure?

Christabel cautioned me not to say anything. With a murderer in our
midst, knowledge could sign our death warrants. I kept silent. This is
something I am not usually good at, but protecting my own life and
that of Detective Ronnie Camberwell is genetically encoded in me. A
star runner is responsible for its crew when no other Member of the
Race is present.

 
