Chapter 7: Figures on the Wall
------------------------------



Ronnie Narrates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I am a professional. I have worked on a police force. I have been a
private investigator. I have been working as an assistant to an
enforcer. I know my job. 

The most important rule of my job is not to get personally involved.
It distorts your view and compromises your integrity in so many ways.

When I saw Suri Iglesia kneeling next to the body of Heracles Beja, I
lost my professionalism. I lost my ability to be objective. Suri
Iglesia took my breath away. I was immediately  smitten. I did not
want to be attracted to a client. I did not want to be enamored of anyone else
besides Captain Star Runner, my own true love. Yet I was bewitched. I
cannot give any other explanation for my behavior. I have no defense
for what happened and no excuses for my behavior.

Suri Iglesia was everything I physically desire in a woman: 

* fragile-looking
* small wrists
* slender
* dark-haired
* long straight hair worn loose.

As a Lystran, she wore long skirts and a high-necked, long-sleeved
over shirt. These garments hid the outline of her body. My imagination
filled in a tiny waist and rounded hips. Her nose and chin were a bit
pointy for my human taste, but those points are highly desired in
Lystran society. The average individual has a very broad face.
Heracles Beja had a broad face.

"I think he is dead," were the first words I heard Suri Iglesia
speak. She spoke the basic spacer language with a soft voice and some
accent which sounded exotic to my ears.

I knew my space basic was very accented. Jack Whicher said it
made me sound very formidable. With my large hands and feet, my large
and awkward body this gave me what I thought of as a brutish demeanor.
I compensate by being in good physical condition. Although Captain
Star Runner will call me beautiful, I think of myself as very plain
with good skin and a direct gaze. My mouth is too big for my face.

As I looked at her, I could not imagine Suri Iglesia killing Heracles
Beja. How I could have continued to believe in her innocence still
baffles me. Captain Star Runner was right. Who else could have killed
him? Suri Iglesia was the only other living being on the planet who
could have done it. Captain Star Runner had not killed him. I had not
killed him. The robot concierge could not have killed him. Why did I
continue to believe in some unknown other killer?

It has to do with my reason for being on Planet X in the first place.
I have not said much about this until now. The background on the
contract may explain a little why I was willing to believe in Suri
Iglesia's innocence for so long. 

 I need to say a bit about how Half Moon Bay Space Station is governed
 and policed.

Only people who have a connection to those who founded the Space
Traders Guild are allowed to participate in the governance of the
space station. Half Moon Bay Space Station is huge. There are a number
of pods, each of which has its own local authority. The space guilders
take turns governing. Each local authority sends representatives to
the Space Station Council. Because very few Space Guilders have the
luxury of giving all their time to carrying out their governmental
duties, they hire non-Space Guilders like Jack Whicher and me to
perform such functions as sanitation, pod maintenance, revenue
collection and education. They reserve defense for themselves though
they can and do hire mercenaries as needed.

Jack Whicher is an enforcer. He collects overdue revenues. I work for
him. Although the title sounds as if we physically threaten people,
this is usually unnecessary and is frowned upon by the Space Station
Council. We have the authority to incarcerate and to impound. It is a
job that mostly requires being tough most of the time and figuring out
how to obtain payment. Jack Whicher has a reputation of being fair.
This helps a lot. 

From time to time, we get requests for other policing tasks. I usually
take these on since my background gives me the skill set for
investigation. Mostly I deal with thievery though occasionally there
is a threat of physical violence.

One day when I reported for work, Jack waved me over to his display.

"What do you think of this?" he asked, pointing at the message.

I saw from his hand held that the message had been translated from
Lystran.

"I thought the Guilders didn't do business with the Lystrans," I said.

"Guilders do business with anybody," Jack said. "They are traders.
That is why your Captain Star Runner gets on with them so well. They
are all pirates at heart."

"But isn't there a war going on?"

"Oh, yeah, there are some skirmishes. Lystra thinks it is still an
empire. It's trying to flex its muscles, but it's so old and sick it
can barely get out of its own way. The People of the Golden Sun have
made inroads, and the People of the Rainbow Sky have tried to get back
the territories--it's just an excuse for flashy spaceships and a lot
of saber rattling. It's quite localized and has no effect on us."

That was not what Christabel had told me, but I am always disinclined
to trust everything Christabel says. I know she is an artificial
intelligence, but I am convinced she is biased and often is biased
against me.

Christabel had said it was a serious conflict In her scanning of many
news outlets and some back channel conversations, a real power
struggle was underway. It could change the politics in our area of the
Primary Arm for many years to come. Christabel believed several races
would divide Lystra up and depending on how that shook out, free trade
might be compromised. This was of great interest to the Space Traders
Guild and they were having back channel conversations with all the
major players and a number of minor ones as well. There had been
equilibrium in the Primary Arm for many millenia. The deterioration
of the Lystran Empire and the emergence of the radical People of the
Golden Sun was changing the balance of power. No one knew if the old
Empire of the Rainbow Sky had enough power any more to settle the
dispute definitively.

I did not have an opinion. I was here at Half Moon Bay Space Station
because Captain Star Runner was here. Both of us were deface exiles
from our own galactic arm. We hoped that staying here for a while
might make it possible for us to return some day.

I read what Jack was showing me.

"Let me get this straight. Someone from Lystra has contacted you to
protect two archeology students on some deserted planet?"

"Not just any deserted planet, Ronnie. We're talking about Planet X."

"Is it really called Planet ?"

"I'm sure it has a name, but everyone calls it Planet X. It's haunted.
Perhaps treasure is buried there. No one knows. No one goes there.
It's bad luck to go there."

"So why did these students go there and why do they need protection
from ghosts?"

"That's not the point, Ronnie." Jack wiggled his fingers. "This is an
official request for assistance and it comes with a sizable payment
from one of the student's family. I did a little checking. They're an
old family, down on their luck a bit as is the whole Lystran Empire,
but they're legitimate. Their daughter is legitimate. There is some
story about special research and fear of academic reprisals. It should
be a piece of cake. Just go there as if it is a holiday. You can make a
bundle which ought to make your cat friend happy."

I had never told Jack Captain Star Runner and I were lovers. He is a
bit prudish when it comes to that kind of interspecies relationships.

"I thought you said no one goes to Planet X."

"Oh, there's a fancy hotel. It's a dare some people take. People will
think you're adventurous if you go there. It's a bit --" he waved his
hand not finding the right expression. "It will give you some
cashette."

The contract was generous indeed. The payment would be all mine if I
went. I would have to compensate Captain Star Runner in some way, sell
her on the idea. She did not like it that it was all secret until I
safely removed my charges from Planet X, but the thought of having me
on board with her pleased Captain Star Runner very much.

But here I was, standing in the doorway where both my charges were and
one of them was dead. Fortunately, it was the male. My contract was
with the female's family. No romantic involvement had been referred
to. 

My snap decision, based on what I thought of at the time was an
objective viewpoint, was to protect Suri Iglesia and earn my fee. What
I should have done was walk away and forfeit the fee. Captain Star
Runner and I should have gone back to Half Moon Bay Space Station and
forgotten there ever was a contract. Maybe we even should have gone
back to the western galactic arm and the Northern Frontier.

But that is not what happened.    

So there I was, standing next to Suri Iglesia, wishing Captain Star
Runner would leave the building so I could hold Suri Iglesia in my
arms and run my hands all over her. I was quivering all over, or at
least that is what I felt like. Star was acting strangely. She was
somehow distant but also judgmental, an Erie combination. I felt she
was hovering, not allowing me to do my job. Her opinion that Suri had
killed Heracles was simply outrageous and one of the irritating
erroneous judgments about humanoids Star is often prone to make.

The figures on the wall fascinated me. I never saw their resemblance
to the Trollolu holograms I had seen in the Prince Hat Star System.
What impressed me here was the detail of the surviving pieces of the
mural. After all this time, the artwork was still breathtaking. What
must these figures on the wall looked like when they were freshly
drawn?

"Are there more figures like this anywhere else?" I asked. I was
trying to think of something intelligent to say. I did not want Suri
to think I was just big muscle. I wanted her to think I was someone
she could treat as an equal, someone she wanted to be with. I wondered
if she could possibly be attracted to me. I hoped she was but I could
not tell. If only Star would pad outside, I could take the risk of
touching her.

"I do not know," Suri said. She sounded disinterested. "I had to run
many tests on this mural. When I made the discovery about its extreme
age, I had to document everything in great detail so I can publish
it."

"What do you think it means?" I asked, trying to sound spellbound. I
do not do overawed well.

"I think it means the Empire of the Rainbow Sky has been lying for
millenia," Suri Iglesia said. "When I release this information, the
whole Primary Arm will know how underhanded they are."

The political implications of this discovery had not occurred to me.
What should have occurred to me was that Lystra was an old enemy of
the People of the Rainbow Sky. I did not know much about either of
them. Captain Star Runner was positively disposed toward the Empire of
the Rainbow Sky. Perhaps that was why she was so skeptical of Suri. I
could not recall all the details of Star's interaction with the People
of the Rainbow Sky. I suspected Star had not told the whole story to
me. Star often left bits out, always casting herself as the heroine of
her adventures. I know these people had done something to Star. She
was just a bit different when she returned. I wondered now if it was
some sort of mind control, something that both Star Runner and
Christabel were imprisoned by. That must be why Star Runner was so
adamant that Suri must have killed Heracles.

Now that I had an explanation for Star's behavior, I must guard
against being entrapped by the same skewed thinking. 
