Chapter 10: Conversations and Other Things At Hotel Vista Incredible
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Totally refreshed, I ascended the mountainside on the funicular. This
time I looked about me. The terrain was bleak. Despite the centuries
that had passed since the Followers of the Stars frequented Tigerfu
Land, plant life was still quite un-evolved. I wondered if the
destruction of the Tigerfu stripped these mountains of forests and the
animals they supported. The views were astonishing but the lushness of
growth or the occasional large wild animal was totally absent. It gave
Planet X a sense of unreality as if it was a poorly executed stage
set.

A stage set? Was that what Planet X had become? Christabel and I
considered this for a time. If the only two habitable sites left on
the planet were the Hotel Vista Incredible and the valley below it,
then it was a kind of video set. The funicular played right into that
sensibility. Other visitors to the planet would have experienced it
just as Detective Ronnie Camberwell and I had. It was part amusement
park ride, part grand hotel, part riverside holiday. I must take the
time to tour the Hotel Vista Incredible facility. Had any other
Members of the Race visited here?

Although the robot concierge had given Christabel a lot of
information, the more questions I asked, the more apparent it became
that the robot concierge had kept back a great deal of data. We began
developing a list of questions for me to ask as the funicular climbed
up the mountain. The more we studied the mountain, the more artificial
it looked. The growth was far too regular to be natural. I wondered at
the scale of the destruction and the subsequent construction. What
were the Followers of the Stars up to here?

EXCURSUS
~~~~~~~~

I have only met one member of the race calling itself Followers of the
Stars. I call him Prince Hat. To oversimplify, Prince Hat looks like a
brown bear. I do not know if the right size is large, average or
small. Prince Hat is larger than a Terry.

Prince Hat told us a tale of the western spiral arm tens of thousands
of years ago. One of the points Prince Hat made was that the Followers
of the Stars had committed genocide against the Trollolu because the
Trollolu had sought to question the the right of the Followers of the
Stars to rule the western spiral arm. Prince Hat spoke of this
incident with great sorrow and remorse.

Now Christabel and I had learned that the Followers of the Stars had
also committed genocide against the Tigerfu for the same sort of
offense. I have been to the Landscape of Thorns. I know about the the
toxic chemical wasteland there. Was there a similar wasteland here on
Planet X? Is that why there were rumors of ghosts or strange
happenings here? Nothing strange had happened here unless you wanted
to count Heracles Beja's death. I thought Heracles Beja's death was
fairly straight forward. Suri Iglesia killed him for her own reasons.

End of Excursus
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I went to the desk in the lobby of the Hotel Vista Incredible and rang
the bell with the printed sign: PLEASE RING FOR SERVICE. The robot
concierge appeared.

"How may I help you, Captain Star Runner?"

"I have some questions about the Followers of the Star,," I said.

"Very well," the robot concierge said.

"Did the Followers of the Stars commit genocide against the Tigerfu
before or after they committed genocide against the Trollolu?"

"An interesting question," the robot concierge said. "I like
interesting questions. It has been a long time since someone asked me
an interesting question."

I waited for an answer. None came.

"You are not answering my question," I said.

"I cannot answer your question," the robot concierge said. "It is not
a rightly formed question."

I thought about it. The artificial intelligences I have dealt with
have reframed my questions in order to supply me with an answer.
Apparently the robot concierge could not or would not do the same.

"What is wrong with my question?" I asked.

"Its parts do not add up to a whole," the robot concierge said. "One
of the failsafes in my programming is to not suggest an answer to a
poorly formed question. This avoids confusion."

"Let me try this series of questions then," I said.

"Did the Followers of the Stars commit genocide against the Trollolu?"

"Yes," the robot concierge said. "This has caused great sadness and
remorse."

This was consistent with what Prince Hat had already told me.

"Did the Followers of the Stars commit genocide against the Tigerfu??"

"No," the robot concierge said.

"You gave my artificial intelligence, Christabel, data which said that
genocide against the Tigerfu was committed," I said.

"No, I did not. Your artificial intelligence, Christabel, inferred
that meaning. The data I gave your artificial intelligence,
Christabel, stated that all the Tigerfu on this planet were
destroyed."

"What happened to the rest of the Tigerfu that were not on the
planet?" I asked.

"They were removed to a far distant area of the Primary Arm," the
robot concierge said.

"Did this removal happen before or after the Trollolu genocide?" I
asked.

"After," the robot concierge said. "The Followers of the Stars did not
want to commit genocide against."

"And was there sufficient numbers of the Tigerfu for them to rebuild
their race?" I asked.

"The Followers of the Stars believed there was," the robot concierge
said.

So the Tigerfu were still out there. I was fairly confident of that.

"And is there a toxic chemical wasteland here on Planet X from that
conflict?" I asked.

"Yes, there is," the robot concierge said. "It is located on the other
side of the planet, far from this place."

"And what is the purpose of the Hotel Vista Incredible, the valley
structures and this whole place?" I asked.

"It serves two purposes," the robot concierge said. "First, it
provides, or provided, educational displays for the young people. They
were entertained when they came here, but they also learned the
history of interacting with other races.

"Second, the area acts as a cover story for Planet X. The ghost
stories and strangeness of the place and its fake history of an
ancient (although it is not really ancient) civilization hides the
toxic chemical bunkers and the history of the Tigerfu who have been
forgotten."

I doubted the Tigerfu were completely forgotten. The People of the
Rainbow Sky would certainly know about them. I wondered if I could ask
Sam Lam Seah about it. I would have to think about that.

"Do you send regular reports to the Followers of the Stars concerning
visitors to Planet X?" I asked.

"I do."

"Have you sent a report about the death of Heracles Beja?" I asked.

"I have."

"And on the dating of the Trollolu mural down in the valley?" I asked.

"Yes, I have."

"Have you received any responses to your reports?" I asked.

"No," the robot concierge said.

"When was the last response you received from any report you sent?" I
asked. I hoped this was a telling question. I hoped it would tell me
something about the activity of the Followers of the Stars.

"I received a report seven thousand, six hundred and fifty-two days
ago, presented in local time," the robot concierge said.

The answer surprised me.

"And you have been working here all that time alone?" I asked.

"I am not alone here," the robot concierge said.

"Who is with you?" I asked.

"There is a whole contingent of maintenance robots," the robot
concierge said, "hotel staff including pleasure robots. Would you like
to engage a pleasure robot, Captain Star Runner? Use of a pleasure
robot is included in the charge for your suite."

I knew both that the robot concierge was diverting my rather pointed
questions, but I also knew that a pleasure robot would answer many of
my questions.

"Yes," I said. "Please have the pleasure robot meet me in my suite."

"Specify model," the robot concierge said.

"What are my choices?" I asked.

"Followers of the Stars, Trollolu, Featherote, humanoid, Pantheran or Tigerfu."

I was stunned. There was a pleasure robot designed to be a Member of
the Race? Christabel and I had a private chuckle that the Fungusian
network was not represented.

Later I learned several other races were available, but as neither
Christabel nor I knew of their existence, they were not included in
the list.

I will  not detail my experiences with the pleasure robot. They are
recorded in my pornographic database and can be purchased by any
reader who wants to recreate my exploits. However, what I will say in
the context of this adventure is this: I chose a Tigerfu pleasure
robot instead of a Followers of the Stars model. I am curious, but I
was not sure I would enjoy a bear-like creature. If I am honest, and
you, dear reader know I endeavor to be honest in recounting my
adventures, I am still in awe of the Followers of the Stars because of
our ancient history with them. the Tigerfu tail is covered
with feathers. This quite surprised and delighted me. I find the
texture and touch of feathers very pleasant.

It was too late in the day to travel to the valley. Christabel said
everything was normal there. I would travel back to the valley in the
morning. For now, I had some serious thinking to do which would be
hard work as Christabel and I needed to work through the mini AI. This
meant my thinking band width was quite limited. It sometimes made me
feel stupid. Thankfully, Christabel did many things to encourage me
and to keep me processing all the information I received today.

Based on what I learned from Sam Lam Seah of the People of the Rainbow
Sky in *Sanctuary, Nanowrimo 2011*, I did not believe the Followers of
the Stars had any outposts in the Primary Arm. Now I had learned they
controlled Planet X, if only in absentia, and that they had played a
major role in this part of the galaxy. My encounter with the People of
the Golden sun made me very aware that that the primary arm was not a
peaceful place. Skirmishes continued to occur in different sectors.
Near here a war was building. Perhaps it had already broken out. 

* Could he Tigerfu be behind the renegade People of the Golden Sun?
* Were the Followers of the Stars capable of responding?
* Where did the Lystrans fit in?
* Would the People of the Rainbow Sky continue to be able to resist
  the People of the Golden Sun?

"You know," Christabel said, "The name People of the Golden Sun is
interesting."

"Why is that?" I asked.

"We thought it was a play on the People of the Rainbow Sky."

"That is true," I said. "That is what the People of the Rainbow Sky
told us."

"They may believe it,," Christabel said. "But here is the thing: The
Golden Sun is the opposite of the stars. The sun shines during the
day. The stars come out at night as people on a planet experience it.

"The People of the Rainbow Sky and the Followers of the Stars were
great allies once. We know this. The People of the Rainbow Sky were
able to modify your genetic engineering and upgrade both you and me."

"This is getting very complicated," I said. "Something tells me the
Followers of the Stars have read all the logs the robot concierge has
sent. There has been no need to respond up until this point. But with
Suri Iglesia's discovery--even if Suri Iglesia herself does not fully
grasp its meaning--much will be revealed that the old races would
rather not be known."

"And if the Tigerfu are really behind the People of the Golden Sun,
they have waited a very long time for their revenge."

"Yes," I said, "they have waited a very long time. What is that Terry
saying about revenge?"

"Revenge is a dish best served cold," Christabel said.

"We need to be very careful," I said.

"Yes, we do," Christabel said. "I think we need to leave here as soon
as possible."

"I agree," I said. "The faster I am back at Half Moon Bay Station the
better I will like it."  be part of it?  
