Chapter Eleven: Comings and Goings
----------------------------------

I paid close attention as I traveled back to where Suri Iglesia was
working. Christabel and I worked together via the mini AI. 

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

     1. I have lost the designation for Captain Star
	Runner's mini AI. I think I once called it a gem.
	I believe I started using this device in *Library
	of the Mind, Nanowrimo 2009* and developed the
	need for it in *Republic of Space, Nanowrimo
	2007*.
     2. I must add the name of the valley into all references to it. Captain Star Runner would never use a general
	term like valley if Captain Star Runner had a name for something. I
	just do not want to take the time to find it.

Christabel brought up her images of the planet and I fed her data from
the ground. This part of Planet X was carefully designed, making use
of existing waterways and mountains. No wonder this area had been
dubbed Vista Incredible. It had been especially designed to be an
incredible view of the so-called natural world.

I am no expert on these matters, of course. The great open spaces and
the encircling mountains made me quite uncomfortable. Christabel had
supplied the mini AI with sufficient biochemicals to keep my anxiety
levels low, allowing me to cultivate an appreciation for the work the
Followers of the Stars had done here.

I did not find Suri Iglesia and Detective Ronnie Camberwell at the
Trollolu stone structure. Before I panicked, I checked the dormitory
building and its makeshift laboratory. Suri Iglesia was packing up her
supplies.

Detective Ronnie Camberwell was saying, "Suri, I don't think this is a
good idea. Your family is expecting you to be aboard the ship they are
sending here."

"Don't worry," Suri Iglesia said. "I will see to it that you receive
the full amount of your fee. I know your contract is fulfilled when
you turn me over to the captain. I know what I am doing."

I stood in the doorway. Both women turned toward me.

"There you are," Suri Iglesia said. "What took you so long? I thought
you would never come back."

I did not say anything. The length of my absence was no concerns of
hers.

"I would like to book passage on your spaceship for Transfer Point
Seventeen. You will be paid well if you take me there right away and
get there as quickly as possible. How long would that take?"

"Identify Transfer Point Seventeen," I said.

"It is in Lystran Empire, stupid cat," Suri Iglesia said. Her tone was
both dismissive and impatient. "Everyone knows Transfer Point
Seventeen."

I decided not to point out to Suri Iglesia the stupidity of her
remark. Everyone does not know the stellar cartography of the Lystran
Empire.

Fortunately, Christabel was prepared. Using conventional insertion and
extraction points, the space journey would take twenty-seven days.
Christabel and I suspected I could do it much faster. 

I have learned a good deal about bargaining so I said, "That will take
twenty-seven standard days. If I get there sooner, I will expect a
bonus for every day I get you there sooner." I named my price and my
bonus. Both were high. I expected Suri Iglesia to balk at the price
and name her own.

Instead Suri Iglesia said, "That will be acceptable."

Suri Iglesia signed the contract and gave me the full fare. I simply
would not let her off my ride until I received my bonus. That usually
worked and if Suri Iglesia protested, arbitration boards usually ruled
in favor of the captain.

Suri Iglesia said Detective Ronnie Camberwell would receive her fee
when we all boarded my ride.

The journey back was uneventful. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was
sullen. Suri Iglesia was impatient.I suspected, and this was later
confirmed,that her manner aboard my ride was imperious. This would not
be a real problem. I could keep Suri Iglesia out of my control center.
The space ways were governed by a number of rules. One rule was that
the captain was in charge. Suri Iglesia would not be able to command
   to do her bidding. I simply refused and ignored her.

I was glad to leave Planet X and get back into space. Traveling
through Mother Space is my favorite state of being.

Ronnie Narrates the Journey Through Mother Space to Transfer Point Seventeen
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Suri Iglesia and I were well aware of Captain Star Runner's forays
into the night. Where Star Runner went and what Star Runner did we did
not know. Suri's opinion was neither of us needed to know. She
basically thought Star Runner was a smelly, not too bright alien and
any time we could be separated from her was a good time.

  .. CAUTION:: I was definitely attracted to Suri, but as I spent more time with her,
  I found her to be a bigoted, self-absorbed and narcissistic woman.
  She was a demanding sex partner and, in her self-referential way, she
  was not at all concerned about my satisfaction or my feelings.

  For example, one time she said, "Well, for a big woman you don't have
  much in the way of voluptuousness. You might as well be a man. At
  least then you could penetrate me." I thought that was the point. No
  penetration was necessary.

When Suri started packing up her things, I became agitated. I did not
want to forfeit my fee. When I raised this question with her, Suri
snapped at me.

"You'll get your fee. Don't be so money grubbing. You're talking just
like a man."

I am worth my fee. I could not protect Heracles Beja, but nothing
untoward had happened to Suri. It was Suri's family who had hired me.

Suri Iglesia's personality had changed greatly since I first met her.
The frightened girl had become arrogant.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                 Show do not tell. Give examples.



 
I was in quite a pickle when I boarded Captain Star Runner's ride. I
knew the signs. Captain Star Runner had retreated into herself. She
would block herself off from us during the trip through Mother Space.

Excursus
++++++++

Mother Space is the Pantheran word (In Pantheran it is one word) for
hyperspace. It is called Mother Space because the Pantherans believe
the Mother of Us All showed Pantherans of old how to go in and out of
hyperspace. The Mother of Us All is both a deity and a constellation
visible from Panthera, the Pantheran home world. Pantherans also
believe that the Mother of Us All look after them and so long as they
can see any star in her constellation, they will be safe. 

This is
especially true of space faring Pantherans. I once asked Captain Star
Runner what Pantherans did when they traveled out of sight of the
constellation's stars.

"We know where the constellation is," Captain Star Runner replied.
"That is all that matters. And when we are in Mother Space, we are
near the Mother."

This made no sense to me. What I do know that as simplistic as this
belief system sounds, the Pantherans know that the constellation is
not the deity. The Mother of Us All stands for their collective
identity and is a foundational myth of their race. The Mother of Us
All is the race and they are therefore a part of her.

The Mother of us All constellation looks like a Pantheran. You can get
a sense of the nose, ears, whiskers, paws, back and tail. The tail
stands high. The Mother of Us All is prancing through the heavens. It
must be a breathtaking sight from Panthera. Other stars form the
Mother's cape. Some have even identified several juveniles which
surround the Mother. The Mother of Us All is a sprawling
constellation.

Star runners are specially genetically engineered Pantherans who pilot
spaceships. They can sense where to enter and leave hyperspace. Other
races build jump gates for this. All traffic comes and goes through
these gates. They are chartered and spaceships must travel between
these specific jump gates in hyperspace or get lost forever. Star
runners just know where points exist and travel freely through
hyperspace. 

I have been told that Captain Star Runner is particularly gifted
finding insertion and extraction points. I was confident we would
arrive at Transfer Point Seventeen well ahead of the twenty-seven day
standard run even though Star Runner had never been to Lystran space.
I knew the Space Traders Guild was in awe of Captain Star Runner's
ability to make quick runs. Her ship was  not particularly well-suited
for transport of either goods or passengers. It was a People of the
Rainbow Sky military vehicle, but Star Runner had made some
adjustments and put it to good use. It was a fast vessel and most of
Star Runner's business was getting people or small amounts of goods
quickly from here to there. Despite the wide use of self-manufactured
parts and self-assembling parts, it is still necessary to ferry goods
from one place to another.

End of Excursus
+++++++++++++++

Although Star Runner had to move very slowly to approach Transfer
Point Seventeen after extraction from hyperspace, she did still
accomplish the run in nineteen days. The bonus Star Runner constructed
and Suri Iglesia accepted paid off handsomely as Star Runner
anticipated. She was quite pleased with herself. Suri Iglesia was
furious at the high cost because, as she said, the ride had not been
up to her standards being smelly, without servant robots and poor
meals. The truth of the matter is that the spaceship has Star Runner's
scent. It is not a luxury liner with chefs, wait staff and
entertainment. The meals were adequate and the accommodations are not
bad. We were not confined to our staterooms. There is a pleasant
lounge with a variety of entertainments. Star Runner has paid
attention to passenger needs fairly well. Lystran specialties were
absent but this was Star Runner's first trip to Lystra and there had
been no time to prepare.

I was glad to see Suri Iglesia leave the spaceship. Her constant
whining and complaining drove me into my stateroom for hours at a
time. Star Runner had cut herself off from us. I found Christabel
unbearable. Her artificial voice always sounds smug to me. 

When new supplies came aboard the spaceship I expected we would be on
our way back to Half Moon Bay Space Station quickly. But nothing
happened. A day went by and then two. No goods came aboard ship. Was
Captain Star Runner having trouble getting a return cargo? This seemed
very odd to me. With her speed, Captain Star Runner would be a good
choice. Transfer points are jump gate hubs where regular spaceships
can find their way to various other points in the galactic arm. There
are a lot of cargoes changing hands. 

Finally I went to the control room door. Captain Star Runner was
grooming.

"Will we be leaving soon?" I asked.

"No," Captain tar Runner paused her licking to speak.

"No? Why?" I asked.

"We cannot leave," Captain Star Runner said, resuming her grooming.

"Why?" I asked again. This sounded strange.

"War has broken out in this sector," Christabel explained. The Lystran
Empire has joined the conflict. We have been classified as an
unfriendly vessel and so we cannot leave. Not only do we not have
permission to leave, we would come under fire if we tried."

"So we're stuck here?" I asked. "How could that have happened?"

"We could not have anticipated Lystra joining the conflict,"
Christabel said. "Lystra has come into the conflict as a supporter of
the People of the Golden Sun. Since this ride is a People of the
Rainbow Sky military vessel, although it is no longer owned and
operated by them, we are lucky that it has not yet been seized. Nor
have we been imprisoned. At the moment, we have appealed our status
and are trying to get permission to proceed to a neutral location
outside of the sector. So far, a neutral site has not been agreed
upon."

   
"How long will this take?" I asked.

"We do not know," Christabel said.

I was about to ask if we were in any danger. Then I remembered
Christabel said we were not imprisoned and the ship had not been
confiscated as a war prize. Well, this adventure of mine that I
thought would be profitable was certainly turning out to be a
nightmare instead.

Disconsolate, I returned to my stateroom. How could I make good use of
my time now that it looked like we could be marooned here for a long
time?
