Chapter Fifteen: A Very Different Suri Iglesia
----------------------------------------------

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                 Let me try writing Ronnie's next scene in the third
		 person. If it becomes difficult or I do not like it,
		 I will revert to the first person.

Although Pru Dillow and Salim were Captain Star Runner's friends from
a previous adventure, Ronnie found them to be pleasant meal
companions. Even Captain Star Runner seemed less remote in their
company. Robbie began to realize that the political crisis might be
weighing heavily on the Pantheran's mind. Captain Star Runner was
ill-equipped to handle all the complications brought about by an
interstellar conflict. Although train to be a military star runner,
Captain Star Runner had no training in political negotiations and only
a smattering of history and that about the Pantheran hegemony in the
western spiral arm. Christabel was helping where she could, but none
of us were well-versed in the local politics of the primary arm. We
all were very much out of our depth at this juncture.

As Ronnie looked around the table set up in the lounge, she began to
think they were all whistling in the dark because they were all
scared. She realized that Captain Star Runner's remoteness may have
had to do with fear. As a Pantheran, even a genderless Pantheran, Star
Runner would never admit fear. She would not know how to ask for help
either. A genderless Pantheran who was not up to the task, whatever
the task was, would be declared surplus and terminated. Star Runner
would be looking for ways to cover her fear and her ignorance. She was
looking for a way to just muddle through and get out of this
impossible situation. Star Runner and Christabel were not playing
games in the control center. They were seeking a way out.

If only either one of them had said something. It would help a lot.

Then came the good-byes and the promises to visit again., Ronnie
wondered if Pru and Salim would come back. They would if they were
still on Transfer Point Seventeen in a few days. Otherwise, they would
pack their bags and leave as soon as possible and probably without a
backward glance. As far as Ronnie knew, they had not been in touch
with Captain Star Runner since they had gone their separate ways after
reaching the Blue Fire Star System.

After the pair of friends had left, Ronnie continue to sit at the
table, wondering what she could do to help get them out of the Lystran
empire and back into Space Trader Guild controlled space. It would be
such a relief to be away from the shooting war though if the People of
the Golden Sun continued to take over planets and star systems, it
would not be long until conflict came knocking.

Christabel said, "Suri Iglesia wishes permission to come aboard to
speak with Detective Ronnie Camberwell."

I froze. What was this about? Suri had left without a backwards
glance. She did not say "Good riddance" but she just as well might
have.

"Detective Ronnie Camberwell," Captain Star Runner said through the
speaker in the lounge. "Do you wish to see Suri Iglesia?"

"What does she want?" I asked.

"One moment," Captain Star Runner said. "I will ascertain her reason."

There was a a pause. My heart was beating rapidly. What could she
want with me? What would I say to her?

"Suri Iglesia wants to contact with you for a particular job  with a
limited duration on Transfer Point Seventeen." Captain Star Runner's
voice was non-committal.

A job? How could I accept a job? How would I be able to leave the
transfer point if I left the ride and was working?

"I would like to speak with Suri Iglesia," I said, hoping my voice did
not tremble. The palms of my hands were damp. Was I that nervous? How
would I react to Suri.

I did not go to the airlock. Suri knew her way around the ride.
Security cameras would pick up her movements.

I heard her quick step in the corridor. She paused in the doorway of
the lounge. We considered each other. I did not rise from the table.
We did not speak immediately.

What first struck me was how different Suri looked. I saw her through
Mrs. Page's eyes. (Mrs. Parge was my foster mother back in Ptolemy
City.) It was an odd feeling. Mrs. Parge would have noticed how
dressed up Suri was, how her hair was plated with sparkling jewels,
how she was wearing makeup and jewelry, how unpractical her shoes
were. Instead of the archeology student, I was seeing the accomplished
Suri Iglesia, the Suri Iglesia her family had raised to be a trophy on
some man's arm.

I had learned from Suri that Lystran society was patriarchal. Lesbian
sex was tolerated though women from important families married.
Adultery was punishable by death though rarely was necessary to
prohibit it. Shame and exposure was sufficient. Male homosexuality was
despised. Shame and exposure worked there, too. What people did before
marriage did not count. Unmarried young adults were free to
experiment.

When Suri told me this, I wondered if I was a failed experiment. She
had found my lovemaking inadequate. A good part of that was my lack of
mammary glands. She had six. I only have two. Across where my hips
are, Suri had openings for insemination. These remain closed unless
aroused. When they are open, they are quite sensitive. I had bungled
taking advantage of that badly. I knew better now how to pleasure a
Lystran female. I certainly did not want to find out how to pleasure a
male Lystran. I have only been penetrated once and that was a horrible
experience I hope never to repeat.

Suri waited for me to fully appreciate her transformation. When she
judged I had taken her all in, she walked across the lounge, swinging
her hips just a little to suggest our intimacies. I caught my breath
and said without thinking, "You look quite beautiful today?"

"Do you think so?" Suri asked, stopping several steps from her chair.

I am certain you think so, Ronnie thought. Well, I guess you are.

"Yes, I do," I said. "You look so much better than you did on Planet X
and I thought you were spectacular then."

Suri smiled and wiggled the slightest little bit. She was arousing me
and I had hoped I would not be aroused.

"Things were good there, were they not?" she said, implying all those
times we had touched each other out of Captain Star Runner's view.

"Yes," I said and I knew she knew I was breathing quite hard.

"We will see if we can find a time to renew our acquaintance." She
smiled again after saying the word acquaintance. This was hardly a
declaration of love or a promise to pick up where we had left off. She
was dangling the possibility in front of me to get what she wanted
from me. I am no fool. I was being played.

"I am so sorry you are caught behind the lines," Suri said as she sat down.  

I said nothing.

"Since you are here," Suri continued, apparently seeing that I was not
going to indulge myself with woeful expressions, "I have a little job
for you if you are interested."

"I could be," I said. I do not do coy well, but I can try.

"So many of our men have gone to defend us." Suri sighed dramatically.
Would she ever stop play acting and get to the point? "Women have had
to step forward and do their jobs." She paused. I said nothing. "As a
result, some investigations are waiting for investigators. As you are
an investigator, I thought you could handle one or two of them."

She smiled brightly at me again. "My family has responsibility
foreseeing to it that  these are taken care of. I said you might be interested while
you are waiting for clearance. A good showing in this area might make
that clearance come a little quicker."

It did not mean it would. It was the bait dangling in front of me. I
suspected Lystrans always baited two hooks: one was Suri and the other
was getting out of here. I suspected also both would be pulled back if
I reached for either of them.

Well, that is a poorly constructed metaphor, but you know what I mean.

"I am not permitted to leave this spaceship and return again," I said.
Let me stick to the practical objections first.

"No problem," Suri said in that same bright voice.

"I will need everything in writing," I said.

"Again, no problem."

"What are these little cases?" I asked.

Suri's cheeriness drained away. I almost thought it was real.

"There has been two deaths in our section of the Transfer Point," Suri
explained. "These are not high-ranking men, but my family believes
no murder should go revenged. We need to know who did it and more
important, why."

I thought of Heracles Beja. Who was taking revenge for his life? Suri
had seemed so uninterested in finding out who had done it.

I believe in justice. I am a former police officer. I was taught at
Simon Parge's knee, the man who invented justice for Ptolemy City
which previously had been a totally lawless place. Justice did not
seem to be a factor here. Family honor did. Could I work in such an
environment? I did not know. What I did know was that I had to say
Yes. Saying No could have consequences neither Captain Star Runner nor
I could anticipate. There were no references in Christabel's databases
for this.

"Give me what you have," I said. "I will look it over and the contract
and then I will let you know if I think I can help you."

For a moment I thought Suri was going to go into one of her rages. She
could go from giggly and playful to outrage and indignation in the
blink of an eye. But she did not do that. She simply said,, "I will
get you everything as soon as I can."

And she left.

When the airlock closed and Suri was on her way, I went to the control
center.

"What do you think?" I asked.

I was asking Captain Star Runner but I was also asking Christabel.

"It sounds dangerous," Captain Star Runner said immediately. I knew
she had already talked to Christabel about this.

"It sounded dangerous to me, too," I said. "Refusing also seemed
dangerous."

"I agree," Christabel said. "She has you between the proverbial rock
and hard place. You have to accept her terms. Asking for written
assurances was a smart move. It may not bind anyone here on the
station, but they will loose face and I think that is very important
in Lystran society."

"I hope to wrap these investigations up quickly," I said. "The longer
you wait on these things the harder they are to solve. I suspect they
will be pretty straight forward. I cannot imagine Suri's family would
give me anything too difficult or too high profile to work on."

"Are you sure they are not looking to blame you?" Captain Star Runner
asked.

"I was not blamed for Heracles Beja's death," I said. "Therefore, I do
not think I will be blamed for this one."

"That one is still not solved," Christabel said. "Does he have a
family who needs to  avenge his death?"

"From what Suri said," I said, knowing full well she might not be a
reliable source, "he was from a 'no account', her words, family. They
might want revenge but they do not have any hope of getting it."


"Just be careful," Captain Star Runner said.

"I will be careful," I said. "I have no intention of becoming another
victim."

There was silence.

I said, "You do need to promise one thing, Captain Star Runner."

Star Runner's whiskers twitched. I rarely use Star Runner's title when
speaking directly to her.

"You need to promise me you will not leave Transfer Point Seventeen
without me."

"I promise," Captain Star Runner said. "You are my responsibility."

"Remember that," I said.

I hoped she would. I was afraid, but how could Captain Star Runner
ever consider leaving Lystra without me.

Star Runner Narrates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I was so pleased to be reunited with Pru Dillow and Salim. They
brought me up-to-date with their activities and I did the same,,
skipping quickly over the events on Planet X. They did not need to
know.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                 Of course, these two also had a need to know. Had
		 Star Runner shared with them, it would have learned
		 some important information which effects the story. I
		 do not know how it affects the story right now, but I
		 need to figure that out.

I was pleased also that Detective Ronnie Camberwell seemed to get
along with them all right, especially Pru Dillow. I did not know how
to talk to Detective Ronnie Camberwell right now and she was so
out-of-sorts. I knew she was trying to adapt to life aboard the ride
in our current circumstances, but she was clearly suffering from
depression. I was glad to see she had made an effort with her
appearance. Ronnie is not a conventionally beautiful Terry. She is
large, strong, awkward in her movements. Nevertheless, she can look
competent and assured. She almost pulled that look off when she met my
friends.

The arrival of Suri Iglesia was another matter. I did not think I
should turn her away. Her family did have some importance on the
Transfer Point. Christabel was still trying to find out how 

all the family connections worked in Lystran society. We had a few
textbooks but they were quite limited. A *Who's Who* would have been
extremely  helpful. Christabel suggested I leave the decision up to
Detective Ronnie Camberwell.

The sexual innuendos were not lost on either Christabel or me.
Detective Ronnie Camberwell was being manipulated. We surmised that
Detective Ronnie Camberwell knew this and struggled valiantly to
resist Suri Iglesia's wiles, but in the end, Detective Ronnie
Camberwell had to agree. There really was not a choice.

Christabel reviewed the contract when it came and altogether we
studied the information Suri Iglesia had provided.

The contract and the assurance was simple. Detective Ronnie Camberwell
could return to the ride when her work was finished. What finished
meant was not explained. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was indentured to
the Iglesia family until she finished her job successfully. She would
be housed, fed and clothed during this period. She would be paid a
small sum when her work was completely, enough the contract said to
make it possible for her to "resume a regular life." We did not know
what that meant but it sounded like boiler plate language.
Remuneration was not the point here. Indenture was a bitter pill to
swallow, but Detective Ronnie Camberwell swallowed it for, as she
said, "the good of the order". 

When we finished with the contract, we moved onto the murders. 
