
Chapter Fourteen: We Look at the Murders
----------------------------------------
  Captain Star Runner Narrates
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  This felt like old times. Detective Ronnie Camberwell, Christabel and
  I were working together on a case. For the moment, I put aside that
  Detective Ronnie Camberwell would be going onto Transfer Point
  Seventeen to interact with Lystrans and especially Suri Iglesia. That
  was later. This was now. I was still basking in the pleasure of seeing
  Pru Dillow and Salim again. They were doing well. We had made a more
  formal arrangement to keep in touch. We had been through some very
  difficult times together. That bond was still there even in the good
  times. I was very happy.

  Christabel had done some initial organization of the case material. We
  let Detective Ronnie Camberwell work through all the material at her
  own pace, listening to her comments and adding our own.

  .. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

		   The initial notes will be pretty raw. I have not
		   thought a lot about these cases and how they will
		   move the larger plot of the People of the Rainbow
		   Sky, The Followers of the Stars and the Tigerfu. Let
		   me see what I can pull out of the air. A back and
		   forth conversation will be awkward. Let me try just
		   writing it out and figure out the the conversational
		   gambit later.



  Two men have been murdered several weeks apart. They are both young.
  Neither of them comes from an important family. 

1. The manner of their deaths is similar which is causing them to be
   grouped together. Because there are only two of them, a pattern cannot
   be established.
2. The Iglesia family is concerned about their deaths because
   unexplained deaths dishonor the family.
3. Policing is not an honorable profession because the police come
   into contact with disreputable people who are neither virtuous nor
   typically successful. A successful crook may be respected for his
   cleverness.

"That is a pretty thin line," Christabel observed.
"You are a petty criminal until you can string together enough crimes
to be successful." 

"It sounds a lot like the Pharaoh Star System," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said. "You are a petty pirate until you strike it big. Then
you might be considered reputable and legitimate businesses come to
you for their legitimate work."

"True," Christabel said. "But the environment in the Pharaoh Star
System sounds very different than Lystra."

"I am getting that impression. Lystra is very class conscious. Are the
respected families government-appointed or related to a royal family
or what? Do you know, Christabel?"

"It appears to be a patronage system," Christabel responded. "If you
once did something for the ruler, you got a position. If you did not
screw anything up, you kept your position and became entrenched. Once
entrenched, you have opportunities to continue to stay entrenched."

"According to what I am reading here," I put in, "The Iglesia family
may be a big deal here on Transfer Point Seventeen, but in general,
transfer points are not high level appointments. If they were
planet side, they would be significant. You are dealing with a big
goldfish in a little lake."

"A big fish in a small pond," Detective Ronnie Camberwell corrected.

"That is what I said," I said.

"Close enough," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said, going back to her
study.

4. Both men worked in the maintenance areas. They were both techs but
   they did different jobs. One worked on sanitation and one worked on
   air supply. This looks more like the area where they could be
   killed as there are fewer security cameras and no one around them.

5. Their friends and co-workers were questioned. No one had noticed
   anything strange in the days before their deaths. Neither man had
   been acting peculiarly. Neither man appeared worried or distracted.
6. Nothing appeared to be stolen on their bodies or in their lockers
   or in their dormitory.
7. The men lived in the same dormitory. Dormitory assignments are
   random and are determined by  gender and age rather than job descriptions.
8. One man had worked on Transfer Point Seventeen for seven months
   while the other one had worked here for three years.
9. Although the men knew each other, they were not friends.  
10. Forensics talks a lot about the weapon used but cannot provide
    hair samples, fingerprints,   in fared data, extraneous
    DNA--nothing at all. 

"There is really not a lot to go on here," Detective Ronnie Camberwell
concluded.

"The weapon information is jumbled," Christabel said. "Did you notice
that?"

"It sounds like gibberish," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I
cannot even figure out what the weapon is."

"That is my point," Christabel responded. "That is why I called it
jumbled. Would I be correct in stating that they do not know what
killed these men?"

"That would be incorrect," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said after
rereading the reports.  "They do not have the weapon. They know of a
weapon that would kill in this way. They cannot imagine a weapon that
kills in this way. In other words, they could not build or make a
weapon of this sort. They have never heard of anything like it.
Therefore, they do not know what killed these men."

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

                 I am on the brink of violating one of Ronald Knox's
		 commandments for writing detective stories. He
		 characterized it as inventing a poison that does not
		 exist. I am not describing a weapon that does not
		 exist. It existed in this universe. The overworked
		 police force or forensics laboratory just have not
		 seen it because it belongs to a race they do not know
		 about.

"Are there any weapons in your databases that match the description of
what this weapon did?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked us.

"No," Christabel said promptly.

"Can you speculate on what sort of a weapon it might be?" Detective
Ronnie Camberwell asked. From what I have read in these reports, the
weapon is the only lead I have. I can re-interview everybody. I can
visit the scene of the crime, but I do not think I will learn anything
new. I cannot see the bodies. They have been recycled already which is
standard procedure on a space station."

"Specific cells in the brain were disrupted," Christabel said. "These
cells govern both personality and morality. Essentially, the weapon
destroyed who these men were. When that part of their brain died,
their whole body shut down."

"I do not understand," I said. I had been following the conversation
very closely, but this made no sense to me. "I would have thought the
two men  would have gone on living in a vegetative state."

"I would have thought that, too," Christabel said, "but that is not
what happened to them."

"It is as if this weapon is a spirit killer," Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said.

"The weapon killed their spirit and then they died?" I asked. "How can
this happen?"

"The ancients would have called it a soul killing weapon," Christabel
said.

We all were silent for a time. It sounded like a terrible weapon

"So the question is," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said, "who has such
a weapon and why did they use it on these two men? They do not seem
dangerous men."

"Were they just random victims?" I asked.

"Just two of them?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked. "I would have
thought there would be more killings if someone was running around
with a soul killing weapon. This makes no sense at all."

"I do not think a soul killing weapon is possible," I said.

"Nothing else fits the facts," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said.

I thought of Sherlock Holmes, but I did not bring him up. Detective
Ronnie Camberwell had criticized me for making a fictional comparison
back on Planet X.

Christabel and I discussed Planet X in our back channel. Could this be
a Tigerfu weapon?

"Or something the People of the Rainbow Sky have or something the
Followers of the Stars have," Christabel added. "Our records are so
incomplete. I think it is fair to say this is not a Lystran weapon."

"What can we share with Detective Ronnie Camberwell?"

"Not much," Christabel said. "We do not have much to share."

"What are you two talking about?" Detective Ronnie Camberwell asked.

"Us?" I asked.

"Don't try to look innocent." Detective Ronnie Camberwell sounded
irritated. "You two are always talking about something."

"It would appear," Christabel said before I could answer, "that this
weapon is made by or was made by an advanced race. It is either a new
weapon newly created or an old weapon created a long time ago."

"Or an old style weapon newly revived," I put in. This displeased
Christabel. She thought I was pushing Detective Ronnie Camberwell in a
direction of inquiry we were still keeping secret.

"So maybe someone on the transfer point acquired this weapon and was
trying it out on some low-level people," Detective Ronnie Camberwell
said. She looked very unhappy.

1. The weapon is from a long time ago and belongs to an advanced race.
   Someone found it and says, what the heck. I'll try it out on
   somebody who is working alone in the maintenance area. Bang.
   They're dead. Wow. Let me try this out again. Bang. Wow. This other
   guy is dead, too.

2. Someone found a book. Wow. Here's a nifty weapon. Let me build it.
   How does it work? Let me try it out on some tech alone at his job.
   Bang. It works. Let me do this again. Bang. Yes, it still works.

"I don't like either scenario," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "The
killings cannot be random. These are not tests or even examples. If
they were examples, we would have to be told what the deaths mean. No
one has done that."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell shook her head. "I am willing to posit a
weapon from beyond the Lystran empire. It is a strange and complex
galaxy. All sorts of races have learned all sorts of things. Some
races have been around a long time. They may have invented things we
know nothing about. It is a dangerous to go on an assumption like this
in police work, but I do not see an alternative. Nevertheless, I think
there must have been a reason why these two men were killed. If I can
find the motive, I may be able to find the killer. My biggest problem
is that this is a transfer point. The killer could have left the
transfer point weeks ago. These are cold cases. They are hard to
solve."

"Are you saying it is hopeless? What about your contract?" I asked. I
was a little panicky. I did not want Detective Ronnie Camberwell held
on Transfer Point Seventeen indefinitely because she could not solve
the case.

"I need to to find a way to know these men." Detective Ronnie
Camberwell paused, twirling a lock of hair in her fingers. With this
gesture, I knew she was thinking. "I need to inhabit them. The only
way I can do this is to go under cover as one of them."

"How?" I asked. "You are not a Lystran. They would not allow you to
work in the tech area if you do not know anything about it. You are
not a man anyway."

"Suri always says I am a man when she is displeased with me, if I have
done something awkward or not to her liking<" Detective Ronnie
Camberwell said slowly. "If I am right, and tell me if I am right or
wrong, Christabel, I could pass as a Lystran man. I have the height
and the build for it, I think. Suri is coming back to take me to her
seamstress to get fitted with appropriate garments. If I tell the
seamstress to also make me men's wear, I am sure I can apply as a
general purpose worker and get a space in the same dormitory. I am an
off worlder stuck here by the war. They are short-handed. I need work
because I will starve without it. Given all this, I may just pull it
off."

"I think you are right," Christabel said. "Lystran male clothes are
also not form fitting. If you can hide the fact that you are not
anatomically male, you should fit in."

"That will be easy enough," Detective Ronnie Camberwell said. "I am a
Terry. They have never seen a Terry male."

I was surprised Detective Ronnie Camberwell used that word, Terry, but
Christabel pointed out to me along our back channel that Detective
Ronnie Camberwell could use any old word for her species and not be
corrected. Terry was a word she was familiar with if she needed to use
it quickly in all manner of situations.

"I need to pull a few things together," Detective Ronnie Camberwell
said. "Suri is coming for me soon."

Detective Ronnie Camberwell stood up. "Captain Star Runner," she said,
"I need you to promise me something."

"What is that?" I asked. Detective Ronnie Camberwell was being very
formal.

"Captain Star Runner," Detective Camberwell said, "I need you to
promise you will not leave Transfer Point Seventeen without me."

"I promise," I said quickly. "I would never leave without you,
Detective Ronnie Camberwell."

And I meant it.

.. ADMONITION:: TWIST

                 Of course, Captain Star Runner leaves without Ronnie Camberwell.     
 
