Chapter Fifteen: A Visit to the Seamstress
------------------------------------------

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

Here is what I know right now. The characters do not know this yet.


#. The case reports Captain Star Runner, Detective Ronnie Camberwell
   and Christabel looked at in the previous chapter (I wish I knew how to
   make a link to that chapter in restructured text) have been faked.
   Ronnie will not be able to find out any information about the two dead
   men. They do not exist.and therefore their deaths never happened.
#. The soul killing weapon does not exist.
#. Ronnie will figure this out when she thinks to look at the report
   filed on Heracles Beja's death. It will be identical to one of the
   reports she received.
#. The simple explanation of Heracles Beja's report is that Suri
   Iglesia copied the first report without making any changes, expecting
   no one to read it carefully or correlate it with the two dead
   maintenance workers.

    #. Suri's class consciousness did not let her see either the
       maintenance workers or Heracles as important enough to be looked at
       carefully.
    #. Suri did not want to draw attention to herself and copying the
       report would allow the report to be filed on a lower class person and
       thus get him off the radar.


    #. I am wondering if someone from the Followers of the Stars or the
       Tigerfu killed the two maintenance workers. Either race would stand
       out on Transfer Point Seventeen. The Tigerfu might be a better bet.
       The killer might have been able to disguise himself as a Lystran. The
       bear-like Followers of the Stars would have difficulty doing that. On
       the other hand, one of the members of either race could have fingered
       one of the Lystrans. Prince hat is a manipulator and I like him for
       the part of using others.
    #. The People of the Rainbow Sky and the Followers of the Stars are
       working together to cause the collapse of their old enemy the Lystran
       empire. If they can use the People of the Golden Sun to do it, so be
       it. In this way the Followers of the Stars continue their exploitation
       of the Tigerfu.
    #. If all this is true, it will affect a Captain Star Runner and
       Detective Ronnie Camberwell differently.

        #. Ronnie will throw her lot in with the Tigerfu.
        #. Captain Star Runner will return to Half Moon Bay Space Station to
           try to remain neutral during the conflict.

    #. This story will not have a happy ending.
    #. A future novel could look at what happens when Ronnie and Captain
       Star Runner come across each other during the war or after it.
    #. Captain Star Runner will reveal all to The Czarina who will blog
       about it for her readers back in the western spiral arm. The royal
       archivists for the Pantheran Empire will sensor her report. They are
       uneasy about all this chatter coming out of the Primary Arm.





Ronnie Narrates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Suri looked me over critically.

"You cannot wear those clothes here," she said. "I will need to take
you to my seamstress to have all new clothes made. You need to look
like a Lystran woman."

"No," I said.

I waited for her to explode. She did.

"No," I said again firmly. "You hired me to find out who killed these
men. I intend to do that. I cannot find out dressed like a Lystran
woman. The men will not talk to me. I cannot go into the maintenance
areas where they worked. I cannot poke around, stand around, look
around the way I need to in order to solve this case."

"You will scandalize everyone dressed like that," Suri insisted. Her
manner was all-knowing and condescending to me.

"I do not intend to dress like this," I explained to her. "I intend to
go to your seamstress and have her design clothes that will make me
looked similar to the way those men looked. I intend to get a bed in
their dormitory. I intend to hang out where they hung out and possibly
get a job in maintenance."

Suri was speechless.

"You cannot do that," she finally said. Her shock was great.

"I must," I said. "If I cannot do these things, I cannot solve your
case."

"The Morality Board will not like it," Suri said weakly. "I will be
implicated, too."

I saw immediately the Morality Board had great power on Transfer Point
Seventeen. That was good to know.

"Does the Morality Board approve of murder?" I asked, pressing my
advantage.

"Certainly not." Suri was regaining her air of indignation.

"Which is a greater offense, murder or cross-dressing?"

Suri made a rude noise. "What do you think?" she asked.

"I am asking because I am unfamiliar with your mores," I said. "If
murder is a more serious offense, then I will use whatever skill I
have to uncover the murderers."

"There is only one," Suri said quickly, then regretted her outburst.

"Only one?" I questioned. "How do you know?"

"I do not," Suri said, trying to cover her early mistake. "I just do
not want to think there are two such degenerates aboard the transfer
point."

I did not tell her the likelihood the murderer was still around was
small. With a war on, the murderer could easily enlist and kill all he wanted.

"So are we agreed that I go to the seamstress and get my man clothes?"
I asked. "You always say I am just like a man. I should pass well
enough."

Grudgingly, Suri agreed. Throwing those man references in my face
pleased her. Acting on her retorts made her very quiet. Her volatile
nature confused me. I wondered if Suri was acting out some juvenile
attraction through fained dislike.

I always find the dock areas of space stations grubby. They are cold,
too. They smell of machinery, lubricants and paint. The spacers who are
coming and going often seem furtive, intoxicated or just creepy. It
always amazes me that Captain Star Runner who is so fastidious about
her appearance, feels so at home in these places.

I was not prepared for the interior of Transfer Point Seventeen. My
first shock was how grimy everything looked.

I have to admit my only acquaintance with space stations is the
Alexandria Space Station, the gateway to the Pharaoh Star System and
Half Moon Bay Space Station. The Alexandria Space Station is bright
and sparkling and to the extent possible, gives the traveler an sense
of openness and airiness. Tara Lee Harrington, my former lover and
space station security chief, told me that passengers coming from and
leaving Ptolemy City could typically afford such luxuries. Their
ticket prices paid for the wider corridors and higher ceilings and
warmth.

I had been to a number of pods on Half moon Bay Station. Some were
newer. Some were older. Some were designed on a more open floor plan
while others were quite enclosed. They were all well-maintained, a
condition of being part of the larger governmental organization that
was Half Moon Bay Space Station. 

There was a smell. It was not the odor I associated with Suri. All
races have their own odor. If Captain Star Runner was present she
could have identified it. The longer I stayed aboard the transfer
point, the more I realized it was the smell of cooked food and waste.
The sanitation systems could not scrub strong odors out of the
recycled air. The smells made their way into fabric and, I am
convinced, the walls, floors and ceilings of the place. It was
unpleasant. I tried not to show I noticed. Suri did not seem to notice
it.

The seamstress, too, was a surprise. Her shop was a small room. We
entered it through a shop that sold hardware or fittings. I was never
sure exactly what all the parts and pieces were for. That a seamstress
worked behind a parts store seemed very strange to me. The
seamstress--I never knew her name--was not related to any of the
people in the parts store. She simply rented this room. As I got to
know the transfer point better, I learned there were lots of rooms
that could only be entered by transversing at least one other room.
Not all rooms had access to the corridors.

The seamstress was probably in middle age. Her skin was mottled. her
hands were arthritic. Her teeth were mere stumps and some were
missing. She had large bald spots on her head. There was something
wrong with her feet. She had difficulty walking. The word *hag* came
to mind. 

When I asked Suri about her, she simply said, "She has five
children," as if that explained everything. Maybe it did. Two were the
norm. Lystrans give birth to two children at a time. Each child nurses
from three mammary glands on one side. I wondered at if the seamstress
had had three children born at once or two sets of two and one set of
one. I never found out.

I did find out that having more than two children was thought to be
morally suspect. It had nothing to do with multiple partners or even
some sort of population control. It was thought to be over indulgent
like drinking too much or eating to much. I suppose it was classified
as gluttony.

The seamstress did not look like a glutton. She looked like a used up,
falling apart woman who needed my pity not my disgust.

I never understood how or why she became Suri's seamstress.

Suri insisted I explain my requirements to the seamstress. It was as
if Suri wanted no part of this plan. nevertheless, she stayed through
all the measuring. The seamstress also put in an order for boots,
undergarments, toiletries other necessities. She spent a lot of time
poking at my breasts. These are not large. The seamstress worried
about how to strap them. I did not see why she bothered. The standard
wear for young men hid any hint of femininity I have. Lystran fashion
causes them to have large amounts of fabric around their hips,
especially in the back, and gathered tops that puff out in the front
as if they might start crowing at any moment. The extra padding in the
posterior region turns out to be necessary as most seating on the
transfer point is uncushioned and very cold.

I realized belatedly that all the seamstress's poking and prodding was
for Suri's enjoyment. I wondered if that was by prearrangement or
whether the seamstress knew Suri's predilections. Perhaps all young
women were the same. I never found out.

When I finally was dressed in one of my new outfits, I studied myself
critically in the mirrors. It was hard for me to tell how well I could
pass. The clothes felt strange on my body and they certainly did not
flatter me at all. Later, when I observed the other men of my
approximate age and assumed social standing, I discovered what a good
job the seamstress had done. I never had the opportunity to tell her.
What I would not know for a while was how attractive she had made me.
Both men and women looked. Their looks were often lascivious. Their
grins or dropped eyes bewildered me. I had never before been the such
an object of attention. I did not enjoy it. I wanted to hide. It made
me rethink the attention I give beautiful or sexy women.


