Chapter Twenty: A Change in My Perspective
------------------------------------------

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF

		1. By rights, I should switch to Captain Star Runner's
		   perspective on this story. I know where Captain Star
		   Runner goes, to the People of the Rainbow Sky. What I
		   still do not know is why.

		2. I also have the problem of knowing what to do with
		   Salim and Pru Dillow. They provide a little information, but for
		   their appearance to make sense, they need to go along
		   with Captain Star Runner and have a meaningful part to play in the narrative.

I just stood in the corridor and stared at the alien. It was quite
tall and quite thin. It had four arms, two on each side. It was
striped and as I had initially thought, it had a cat's face. Whereas
Captain Star Runner's face more closely resembled a domestic cat, this
individual's face was flatter as if a human being was trying to look
like a cat. It had whiskers and cat ears on top of its head. It did
not have green eyes. Stupidly my mind said, it does not hunt at dawn
and dusk. It does not stay out at night.

"We do not have much time, Detective Ronnie Camberwell" the alien said to me in accented basic.
This was not the meow-sounding speech of a Pantheran. "Do you have the
reports?"

I stared at the alien, speechless.

"I cannot read minds, Detective Camberwell," the alien said. Its tone
was calm which was very odd. The transfer point was shaky. Alarms
continued to sound. Announcements repeated over and over.

"Reports?" I finally repeated. "Suri Iglesia has the archaeological reports. She
copied them from Heracles Beja.

It was the alien's turn to be silent. I could not read the expression
on its face. Its whiskers were twitching.

"I know nothing about archaeological reports," it finally said. "We
want the other reports you have."

The transfer point rocked violently. We were both thrown to the
corridor floor. Then the gravity went off. More alarms sounded. More
instructions came over the loud speakers.

"Come with me," the alien said. "The station is breaching everywhere.
We must get back aboard ship."

I am a total loss at moving when there is no gravity. The alien knew
how and used its arms to pull us from handhold to handhold, eventually
getting us into an open area where it could launch itself from ceiling
to floor in a way that made sense. We were back in the docking ring.
We got aboard a spaceship and left Transfer Point Seventeen none too
soon. When we were fully clear of it, the space station blew up.

I saw this on the view screens in the control center of the spaceship.
I was strapped into an acceleration couch. The spaceship was going as
fast as it could toward a jump gate.

"Why did you blow up the transfer point," I asked. I was glad to be
alive but I was certain I was a prisoner.

"We did not," the alien, who appeared to be the captain, replied. "It
is coincidental that we arrived when the attack began."

"I do not understand," I said.

"We will explain everything to you when we are at cruising speed in
hyperspace," the captain said. "Right now we need to concentrate on
getting clear before we are noticed."

Their own language was rapid and in a low register. I could tell by
the view screens when we inserted into hyperspace. There were a number
of course corrections. Then there was quiet.

"We will go to our discussion room," the captain said.

The captain and my rescuer detached themselves from their acceleration
couches. My rescuer detached me and assisted me in the weightless
spaceship to navigate to a very comfortable conference room.

"This cabin functions as our discussion room, our recreation room and
our dining area," my rescuer said. "You can see our galley facility on
the far wall. We hope our fare will be eatable for you. Our medical
officer will do some tests to determine if it is and what can sustain
you if it is not."

That sounded quite dire to me.

"We had not intended to take you off the transfer point," the captain
explained. "However, the attack changed all that. It would have seemed
cruel to abandon you to your fate."

"And what is my fate?" I asked. Starvation sounded like a possibility.
Test subject might be another prior to starvation.

"Your 'fate', as you put it, is up to you," the captain said. "You are
not our prisoner. You are our guest."

"Could we begin at the beginning?" I asked. "Do you have water? And
who are you and what do you want that you think I have?"

"I am Harnoff," the captain said. "This is Janker. We are Tigerfu."

"I have never heard of Tigerfu," I said.

"It is a long story," Janker said. "We will have time to go into our
history, but the short version is that we are people who once lived on
the world known as Planet X."

"but you did not want the reports from Planet X," I said.

"What reports?" Captain Harnoff asked. "I do not know about any
reports from Planet X."

And so we began our exchange of information.

Perhaps it was the shock of first being almost killed by Suri Iglesia
or the attack or the betrayal of Captain Star Runner or the
destruction of Transfer Point Seventeen or everything that had
happened or it had nothing to do with any of it. I liked these aliens.
They were kind and courteous. I could not eat most of their food, but
they were generous with what I could eat and the medical officer could
synthesize some vitamins and minerals to keep me going. She knew what
food stuffs of theirs I could eat when they reached civilization, as
she put it. I could thrive on their worlds. I liked that idea.

"We are engaged in responding to forces here in the Primary Arm,"
Captain Harnoff said. "We were not a part of the attack on the
transfer point. We believe that was initiated by the People of the
Rainbow Sky. They are old, very old, enemies of the Lystran Empire."

"I did not think they were actively participating in the war," I said.
"I thought they were trying to contain the People of the Golden Sun."

"The propaganda the People of the Rainbow Sky put out is that they are
a benign elder race that only want to maintain the status quo," Janker
said. "If we are fair, and it is often hard to be fair, the People of
the Rainbow Sky are more concerned with their own interests than that
of the rest of the Primary Arm. But of late, and I mean for several
centuries, they have become more active again. Even this would not
have been worrying except that they have revived their connection
lately with our old enemy, the Followers of the Stars."

I stared at them.

"the Followers of the Stars are in the western spiral arm," I said. "I
 personally have never met one of them, but I know several people who
 have."

This intelligence surprised both of my new friends.

"Who?" Captain Harnoff asked.

I was frightened. They both realized this. Had I said too much?

"We are just surprised," Janker said. "We are curious that the
Followers of the Stars had contact with outsiders."

"People in the western spiral arm discovered a toxic chemical site
from a long-ago war," I said. "One of those people was a
fuchsia-colored P\Pantheran," I said. "We learned the site was from a
genocidal war against the Trollolu. The Pantheran, my on and off
lover, accepted a commission to go to the Primary Arm. I returned to
my own world."

"We have heard of this fuchsia-colored pantheran," Captain Harnoff
said. A Pantheran had not been seen in the Primary Arm for many
thousands of years."

"Were they common here?" I asked.

"Our histories tell us so," Janker said. "They are fearsome warriors.
They once were the pilots of all space faring vessels. They built the
original jump gates."

"They were maintained by the People of the Rainbow Sky," Harnoff said.
 "I did a report on them for school when I was a juvenile. They were
 introduced into the Primary Arm by the Followers of the Stars."

"They were instrumental in driving us from our home world," Janker
said.

"Our home world is the planet you call Planet X. The Followers of the
Stars took it over after we were driven out."

"That was twenty thousand years ago, right?" I asked.

"About that," Janker said. "How do you know? The People of the Rainbow
Sky and the Followers of the Stars have made great efforts to
eliminate even the knowledge of our race."

"Because of the work Heracles Beja was doing there recently," i said.
"He was analyzing pigment samples on a stone wall."

"Are those the reports you were speaking  of?" Janker asked. "The ones
you thought I wanted."

"Yes" I said. "What reports did you want."

"Two men were killed on Transfer Point Seventeen," Harnoff said. "An
unusual weapon was used."

"No one was killed," I said. "I investigated. No one knew who these
men were. They never existed. The weapon described was an
impossibility."

Janker twisted his ears. I had already learned this was a negative.

"The weapon does exist," he said. "That is why we want the reports."

I shared what I had with them. They were quite excited and murmured
together over them for some time. I was very tired. I asked to be
excused.

The medical officer, her name was Suchee, showed me to a quiet and semi-private  
space. I stretched out and began to cry. Suchee sat with me, making
low rumbling noises which I took to mean comfort.

"What is wrong?" Suchee finally asked when I had stopped crying.

"She left me to die," I said.

"Who left you to die?" Suchee asked.

"Captain Star Runner," I said. "She promised she would not leave
without me and she left me there to die. If Janker had not come
looking for me and took the time to save me, I would be dead. We were
not getting along very well. But that was no reason to let me die."

"We do not know all the facts," Suchee said. "I know you are
frightened and feeling all alone. Any reasonable person would feel
this way after what has happened to you. This is especially true of
humanoids in my experience. The only comforts I can give you are
these: You are safe here. We will make sure you can live somewhere
safe when we get back. Our route takes us deep into Tigerfu-controlled
space. There is no war going on there. The second thing I can tell you
is that without the facts, we do not know if Captain Star Runner left
voluntarily or not. It may not have been her desire to abandon you.
Perhaps she thought she could get back in time to save you. Perhaps she
thought you would be all right while she was away. The attack was
well-executed. It was a total surprise. We monitored all the
communications."

"Was there any communication from Captain Star Runner?" I asked. It
was a silly thing. How would they know. Were they there at the right
time to find anything out?

"I will have Janker check," Suchee said. "Can you give him some more
information?"

"I think I can,," I said.

"Then we will look and see," Suchee said.

And she left me alone to sleep.

When I awoke, Janker had some information for me. 
