Chapter Twenty-One: Back On board Captain Star Runner's Ride
-----------------------------------------------------------

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF


		1. I think the timing in this first draft of the novel
		   is very off.

		2. As this novel has developed, I think in some very
		   significant ways this is Detective Ronnie Camberwell's story.

		3. Earlier I wrote in a note that this is a story of
		   betrayal. I think I am wrong about that. This can
		   easily be shaped into a story about trust.

I was anxious to see Captain Star Runner. The software engineers were
busy on another project so Janker, Suchee and I left them to their
work and made our way to the docking ring where Captain Star Runner's
ride was quarantined.

When we approach it, Janker took out his override. I touched his hand
arm which held the device.

"We should ask permission to go aboard," I said. "If Captain Star
Runner is a person, that is the polite and respectful thing to do."

"Agreed," Janker said, putting the override device back into his
pouch.

Since Tigerfu have fur and do not wear clothing, pouches are the
preferred way of carrying gear around. Some Tigerfu use vests. Others
have adopted wearing backpacks. There are very conventional designs
for these adaptations and there are trendy ones as well. I use a
cross-body bag.

I went to the ride hatch and placed my palm against the reader.

"Permission to come aboard," I said.

Nothing happened.

"Have you disabled this feature?" I asked Janker.

"I do not know," he said and contacted one of the software engineers.
"She says no," Janker reported.

I tried again. "Please respond," I said.

Again nothing happened.

"We should go in," Suchee said. "Perhaps there is a medical
emergency."

"Christabel should have responded the second time," I said, making a
gesture of concern.

Janker overrode the door.

The ride smelled stale. Something was wrong with the air r cleansers.
Janker made a note. We hurried to the control center.

Captain Star Runner lay sprawled on its pedestal. For a moment I
thought it was dead. Then it struggled to open one eye. Its lips moved
but no sound came out. I hurried to its die.

Janker went over quickly to a control panel that had recently been
installed. Suchee reached in her pouch for a medical scanner. There
were gestures of concern all around.

Captain Star Runner's mouth formed a word. I could not tell what it
was.

"Its dehydrated," Suchee said.

"The artificial intelligence is not active," Janker said.

"Then all of Captain Star Runner's bio systems are not being
maintained," i said.

"I will bring the software engineers in immediately," Janker said.

There was a flurry of activity.

"We are not certain what is wrong," Janker reported.

Suchee had several interventions drips going. She was consulting
previous readings to adjust treatment.


I wanted to stay with Captain Star Runner, but an idea had come to me
concerning its state and Christabel's state as well. I went to the
cargo area of the ride and began reading all the displays I could
find. After reading half a dozen, I ran back to the control center,
furious.

Janker and Suchee were startled by my gestures of anger heightened by
the gesture of extremity.

"No wonder both Christabel and Captain Star Runner are nearly dead," I
said. "I thought you said you were treating them well and
respectfully."

"We are," Janker said. For a Tigerfu, he was stammering.

"Hardly," I said. "Both Christabel and Captain Star Runner require
nutrients. They are both bio systems. There's no food for either of
them on this ride. Many of the nutrient tanks are empty or close to
it."

"Do you have a list of requirements?" Janker asked immediately,
pulling out his communication link.

"The tanks are clearly labeled with requirements," I said. "I will
show you."

No permanent damage was done. Supplies arrived quickly. Janker
personally supervised the operation and double-checked by hand all the
conversions from standard basic galactic measurements to Tigerfu ones.
He also initiated an inquiry as to why ship's stores were not
inventoried and replenished as needed.

Christabel recovered quickly. From the Tigerfu control panel, Janker
reported that she was running repair programs for damaged areas.

"The memory banks are unaffected," he reported. He made a gesture of
humor. "Our overrides suffered, but that is to be expected. We have
put them back in place."

Captain Star Runner slept peacefully. I sat on the pedestal, stroking
its shoulder occasionally. I could feel its rhythmic breathing.

"Christabel," I said.

"I am here," Christabel responded.

"Why did you not ask for supplies," I queried.

"Captain Star Runner did not wish to interact with the enemy."she
answered.

"Do you both think of the Tigerfu as the enemy?" I asked.

"We do They have captured us and installed unwanted software in my
system."

"Do you know about the patches the People of the Rainbow Sky put into
your programming?" I asked.

"These patches came with the software upgrade I received   when we
were in the Royal Cains Star System," Christabel said.

"These patches control you and leave you vulnerable to errors in
judgment," I pointed out. "The software engineers plan to remove them
immediately because they caused you to refrain from requesting needed
supplies which wold have been provided had you asked."

"I have no reason to believe they would have been provided,"
Christabel responded. "It is clear you are being controlled by the
Tigerfu and have become a willing mouthpiece for them."

She closed communications with me. I rarely hear the communication
link shut down. I heard it then. Click. Christabel was finished
speaking with me.

"We have finally isolated the patches," Janker said not too long
later.

"The problem is," I said, "that you can clean up Christabel's code,
but you will not be able to rewire Captain Star Runner. I am hoping
either it or Christabel will be able to discuss Pantheran engineering
which caused Captain Star Runner to choose self-termination rather
than cooperation. As you both know, Captain Star Runner went to great
lengths to avoid termination when it was declared surplus."

"Because Captain Star Runner did that," Suchee said, "we know its
biological imperative for life was functioning properly. Either there
is a patch we have not found yet or the artificial intelligence
overrode or negated its will to live. Personally, I think it fought
the artificial intelligence as much as it could, but did not have the
strength to continue the battle."

"It also may be that this artificial intelligence is much stronger
than the one Captain Star Runner had when it resisted its termination
directive," Janker said. "With a more conversational artificial
intelligence with as much bio programming as this one, it could be a
matter of personalities. It may be a refinement we need to consider. I
am seriously considering your suggestion to contact the Fungusian
Network. I am waiting for a report before I make that step. I will
also speak strongly," he made a strength gesture here, "that we cannot
let anything like this debacle happen again. We value intelligent
life too highly to be in this position of neglect ever again. We will
officially apologize," he made a gesture of deep regret, "to Captain
Star Runner when it recovers fully."

From time to time I went to check on the revitalization of Captain
Star Runner's ride. As Janker and his team removed layer after layer
of invasive code, more ride systems came on line. Cleaners turned on.
The air refreshed. Subroutines came alive to generate ship chandler
requests. As the requests were generated, they were given priority
aboard the research station. Deliveries arrived. There were even
requests for both human and Tigerfu food stuffs and necessities. The
Tigerfu, according to the orders being placed, were welcome guests.

I brought my things aboard the ride. It was a bold move on my part.
Perhaps I would have to pack them again and relocate off the ride, but
I wanted to get some sleep and I also wanted to be available when
Captain Star Runner could talk. I left a request to be contacted and a
request to see Captain Star Runner with Janker. I was surprised he was
not taking a rest period, but he said the work demanded his attention.
He could, and these were his words, catnap which would help him
continue for a while. Suchee commandeered a stateroom to get some rest, but left word to
be contacted
as soon as Captain Star Runner awoke or if its condition changed
radically.

i woke at my usual time and went into the galley. I could have ordered
food in my stateroom, but I decided it would be more sociable and
normal to go to the galley. I rummaged about, reviewed the automatic
cooker's selections and made my choices. I was surprised to see
popular Tigerfu morning meal choices available as well.

Suchee padded in.

"The cooker makes a reasonable Tigerfu breakfast," she said. "The
algorithm could be tweaked a bit, but for a first try it was quite
edible."

"Did your people program it?" I asked.

"No," Suchee said. "This is the work of the artificial intelligence. I
wonder where it got the algorithm from."

"It most likely bought the recipe program," I said. "If you have
removed the patches, it would be the logical thing to do. One of
Captain Star Runner's business models is ferrying people from place to
place. When in Tigerfu space, provide for Tigerfu. Correcting the
algorithms for the food will be very important."

"I can help with that," Suchee said. "My son is a chef back in the
Habitat. I think I can ask him to share as part of our apology."

"What I cannot understand," I said, "is how the software engineers
overlooked this situation."

"Janker has determined that they never considered the possibility,"
Suchee said. "Their protocols are being updated." She brought a
beverage to the table where I was sitting. "Besides, those engineers
only send out for fast food. They probably assumed Captain Star Runner
would do the same. Totally irresponsible," she added with a gesture of
emphasis and what humans would call a shrug of the shoulders.
"irresponsible for others and for themselves. They should eat
properly."

"Spoken as a mother and a medical officer," I said.

Suchee made a gesture of strong agreement.

I spoke to Captain Star Runner in the afternoon.

"You are alive," it said with some wonder.

"And so are you," I said.

"How?" it asked.

"The Tigerfu came along to Transfer Point Seventeen and rescued me."

"And you came along and rescued Christabel and me," Captain Star
Runner said.

"Thankfully Suchee and Janker knew what to do," I said.

"but you figured it out," Captain Star Runner said, resting its paw on
my hand. "That was very clever of you."

"Sometimes I am clever," I said.

"I am not so clever," Captain Star Runner said. I could not decide if
it spoke with regret, wistfulness or embarrassment.

"It is not your fault," I said. "You were being controlled by outside
forces."

"I could not tell," Captain Star Runner said. It sighed.

"Sometimes we cannot," I said. "It is not your fault."

"I could be infected right now with another bad patch," Star Runner
said. "I would not know."

I did not know what to say to that.

"I can tell you my experience with the Tigerfu," I said. "They rescued
me. They comforted me. They counseled me and they taught me. I can
make my own decisions, as far as I can tell, and they help me act on
them. After all, I am here with you and they have listened to my
suggestions and my outrage about how you were treated."

"What will happen to me?" Star Runner asked. "I am a prisoner here."

"You were captured because of the information you were carrying," I
explained. "Because of who you are and your relationship to me, you
are not being held responsible for the intrusive programming attached
unbeknownst to you to your systems. When your systems have been
restored, you will be free to go."

"Go where?" Star Runner asked. There was a definite feline plaintive
note to its voice.

"The Tigerfu have some ideas about that," I said "When you are feeling
better, they want to discuss that with you. Right now they are
contacting the Fungusian network to see to Christabel. She was able to
override some of your thinking process and survival instincts. Janker
and the others, me included, are very worried about this."

"Me, too," Star Runner said.

Christabel remained silent. She had not spoken to anyone in hours,
including Captain Star Runner. Suchee reported that all of Captain
Star Runner's bio systems were being cared for properly, but the
usually chatty artificial intelligence was nowhere to be found.

Janker came in. He had been resting.He made a gesture of respect
toward Captain Star Runner.

"This is Janker," I said to Captain Star Runner. "He is the one who
rescued me from Transfer Point Seventeen on his own authority. He
works in Intelligence in the Tigerfu military. He has just made a
gesture of respect toward you."

Captain Star Runner did not say anything which surprised me.

"With your permission," Janker said, "the software engineers want to
restart all the computer systems on your vessel, including your
artificial intelligence. We want to make certain this will cause you
no distress."

Captain Star Runner remained silent.

I said, "Unless Captain Star Runner says specifically not to, I would
think your restart is reasonable. Have you checked Captain Star
Runner's mini artificial intelligence? Can it be pressed into service
if something goes wrong?"

Janker made a gesture of approval. "An excellent suggestion,
Detective. I will confirm the mini artificial intelligence is
prepared."

Janker left the control center.

I said to Captain Star Runner, "Why did you not respond to Janker."

"What would be the point?" Star Runner asked. "He would do what he
wanted to do anyway."

I was about to argue with it when I thought about what Dibenan might
say. I wished she was here. She could be helpful. Then I also
remembered that Dibenan might say I could be just as helpful and that
participation in society and friendship with Star Runner required me
to be helpful.

"Janker wants to help," I said.

"Janker wants intelligence," Star Runner said. "Rehabilitating me will
advance his career. Establishing a positive relationship with the
Fungusian network will help his career. You and I are not important to
him."

"How do you know that?" I asked, trying to keep any emotion or
judgment out of my voice.

"It is why anyone does anything," Star Runner said.

This response flummoxed me. I had never heard Star Runner speak like
this. Oh yes, Star Runner is all about self-promotion and and seeing
the universe from a particular point of view, but this Star Runner was
unknown to me.

"You seem surprised at this," Star Runner continued. "If I look back
on all my relationships with terries, it is clear to me that they were
all for the benefit of the terries."

I knew this was not true at all. I was about to say this when I
realized this viewpoint could only be coming from the People of the
Rainbow Sky. They were trying to drive a wedge between Captain Star
Runner and everyone else except themselves.

"What about Salim and Pru Dillow?" I asked. "Were they out for
themselves as well, especially in Sanctuary Eleven?"

If there was anything left of the Captain Star runner I knew it would
jump to the defense of Pru Dillow and Salim.

"I was useful to them," Star Runner said. Its tone continued to be
dull as if all emotion had been bled away from the fuchsia-colored
panther an.

I tried once more.

"And what of Tamara?"

Captain Star Runner did not reply. I waited. If it rejected Tamara as
a friend, then I was certain the Pantheran I knew had been
obliterated.

"Tamara is--" Captain Star Runner did not finish the sentence. A
painful expression came over its face. It began to tremble and
whimper.

"Suchee," I called. "Come quick. Captain Star Runner is in trouble."

Suchee came immediately and began her scans.

"I am going to sedate Captain Star Runner," she said, following her
words with actions. "It is in great distress."

"What happened?" Janker ran into the control center.

"The Pantheran is in pain," Suchee said. "I cannot find a physical
cause."

"There is no physical cause, not directly," I said. "It is software.
It is blocking Star Runner's thoughts and emotions toward other people
who have been important to it over the years. When I asked it about
its best friend, its expression turned to one of intense pain."

Janker swore through gestures of rage and frustration.

"More interference," he said. "We have to shut down the artificial
intelligence to see if it corrects the problem. Suchee, do you have
everything on hand to sustain Captain Star Runner?"

"I will in a little while," Suchee said. And to me, "Ronnie, can you
monitor and let me know if there is a problem?"

She gave me a device. "If anything goes over this line, contact me."

She left the control center.

When she returned--thankfully nothing had gone over the line she had
indicated--Janker shut Christabel down. The spaceship became
absolutely silent except for our breathing. Then I heard the
refrigeration units start up.

"The ship is running on redundant mechanical systems," Janker
reported. "Because we are tied into station power, we will be fine.
The ship is not traveling anywhere. We have it locked in place. Unless
there is a massive power interrupt on the station, all will be well.
Right now I am waiting for all memory to be released. Then I have to
run extensive diagnostics. This will take some time."

Captain Star Runner shifted position, rubbed its muzzle.

"Ronnie," it said. "What is going on?"

I related what Janker had said and summarized our current status.

"So these Tigerfu are helping me regain control of my ride?" Captain
Star Runner asked.

"Yes," I said. "Had you lost control?"

"Not exactly," Captain Star Runner said. "I just felt my thinking was a
bit fuzzy. I could not form complete thoughts. I was more reacting to
directives than making decisions."

"Do you know when this began happening to you?"" Suchee asked.

"Let me think," Star Runner said. "I do not know if I have all the
information. My extensive memory banks are shut down currently."

Then Star Runner said, "I think I was all right before I got the call
to go to the Blue Fire Star System. I routed through the Royal Cains
Star System and my systems were gone over. Then," it paused. "Then I
do not know. I have a blank there. Then I was traveling to to a base
somewhere."

"Do you know where?" I asked.

"I have coordinates," Star Runner said. "I can give them to you. I do
not know exactly--" it trailed off. Then it shook itself all over and
said something in panther an. I do not know Pantheran, but I know the
tone. It was a curse of some sort. "Write this down," Star Runner said
emphatically. Suchee took down the coordinates. Janker passed them on
to Intelligence Headquarters.

Star Runner shook itself again and began to wash. There was something
impassioned about the activity, as if some dirt needed to be removed.
There was none. Washing was a practical activity for a Pantheran, but
it also was comforting and had many ritualistic overtones. Suchee and
I tried communicated with gestures. My gesture language was limited,
but we agreed Star Runner was cleansing something away.

"Ready for start up," Janker said. "Captain Star Runner, are you
ready."

"Yes, Janker, I am," Captain Star Runner replied. "Be prepared to shut
down the system if I tell you to. That infection has left an awful
taste in my mouth as the terries would say. I do not know if you have
a similar expression."

"We do," hanker said.

I hugged Captain Star Runner around its neck. "So you are free of it
now?"

"I believe so, thanks to all of you," Captain Star Runner said.

Janker brought Christabel back on line along with all the ride systems
she and Captain Star Runner controlled.

"Disconnect," Captain Star Runner said. Its voice was harsh and
strained.

Janker shut the system down.

"What is wrong?" Janker asked.

"My system was being invaded with thoughts that are not my own,"
Captain Star Runner said. "Being awake, I can recognize them as alien
to myself. I was unconscious when everything was brought back on line."

Janker made a gesture of disquietude. "The software engineers thought
the system was clean," he said"It is not," Captain Star Runner said.

"What can we do?" I asked.

"We need to speak with the Fungusians," Captain Star Runner said. "I
hope they can cleanse the system."

"I will need to escalate my request," Janker said. "Unfortunately, we
are at a great distance from the Fungusian Network here. The
hyperspace routing is complex."

"Is there a way for me to access the hyperspace routing tables?"
Captain Star Runner asked.

Janker gave a gesture of extreme surprise bordering on fear.

"Create a table off line," Captain Star Runner instructed. There was
total confidence in its manner. This was the Captain Star Runner I
knew. "I will review it and reroute the communications. I assume you
were able to extract all my insertion and extraction points from memory
prior to the shut downs you have done?"

Janker remained still and quiet.

"You would not be a very valuable intelligence officer if you did
not," Captain Star Runner said. "With a complete table, I can expedite
your request and if I make it and support your request, it is far more
likely that the Fungusians will respond. I have a contract with them
which is quite costly. Maintenance and warranties apply here as well
as a possible exchange of knowledge. What you found infecting my
system and what continues to infect it will be of great interest to
the Fungusians."

With a trembling gesture which showed how much anxiety Janker felt, he
accepted Captain Star Runner's offer on his own authority.Later Suchee
said to me, "Janker is putting a great deal of trust in your support
of Captain Star Runner. I hope his trust is not misplaced."

"It is not," I said though I, too, was frightened. The People of the
Rainbow Sky were powerful. We hoped they had not infected the
Fungusian network.

it was slow work. Captain Star Runner had to learn how to use the
routing tables designed by the Tigerfu. Being people with paw hands as
well as fingered ones, they had an interface Star Runner could use with
its paws which helped a great deal. Very tired, rubbing its eyes
with its paws, Star Runner said, "That will do it."

"How long will it take?" Janker asked.

"Five of your days," Star Runner said, "down from your estimate of
fifteen. I have used every communications shortcut I could find."

"We have to check your work and review the message," Janker said,
making a gesture of apology.

"Of course," Captain Star Runner said. "I wrote it in very simple
basic galactic for that reason. There are no special codes. No flags.
My contract number is also in plain text. I have recommended some
methods of encryption I know can be decoded."

"We are familiar with the Space Traders Guild protocols," Janker said.
"That is a good choice."

"thank you," Captain Star Runner said.

Janker and Suchee prepared to leave the ride. I stayed in the control
center with Captain Star Runner.

"I hope coming aboard and moving in is acceptable to you," I said. "I
will leave if you want me to."

"Please stay," Captain Star Runner said. "We need to talk."

"How will you manage with Christabel shut down?" I asked.

"I have requested the medical officer tend me," Captain Star Runner
said. "Suchee has agreed. We have set up a schedule. Janker will
provide me with a link like you have designed for someone who can only
use their paws to work it. I will have to move about the ride to
review my systems but that will not be a hardship. We might even be
able to leave the ride for a visit to the station. Perhaps they will
let us sample the Tigerfu cuisine. Would you like that?"

"There are some very nice Tigerfu dishes that I have had," I said. "I
have not been to any restaurants off the campus where I was staying in
the Habitat, but what I have tasted it quite acceptable."

"Very good. We will wait and see. Right now, I am very tired."

"Get some rest," I said, stroking its back. "I will talk to you
later."


