Chapter Twenty-Two: The Last Chapter
------------------------------------

While we all waited for a reply from the Fungusian Network, life
aboard Captain Star Runner's ride proceeded at a very slow and
leisurely speed. Captain Star Runner slept a lot. When it awoke, it
got down from the pedestal and moved about the ride.

"Were you trained to inspect your ride this way?" I asked Star Runner
on the third day.

"As a matter of fact I was," Star Runner replied. "I was selected for
the military,but lots of star runners operate a ride much like this
one. It is a required competency to be able to run your own. Most of
us grumbled about the need to leave the acceleration webs and
actually inspect the ride, but we were taught that things could go
wrong with even are artificial intelligences. Suchee is following the
protocols set down by the Institute of Genetic Design. There is a hard
copy book and a digital one on this ride. Although it is all written
in (and here Captain Star Runner made a sound I had learned meant the
Members of the Race), I made a copy I knew all Terries could read.
Later I made sure all Space Traders Guilders could read the
documents."

"Clever," I said.

"Useful," Captain Star Runner replied. "Keeping those copies was part
of my training. I never saw the wisdom of changing that process. It is
possible to live without an artificial intelligence. It is just very
time-consuming and uncomfortable. Because I often leave my ride when
we are parked somewhere, I have learned all of the social niceties of
bodily control." Captain Star Runner made a sound I have always
translated as laughter. "I got excellent grades in that area. Most of
my classmates failed miserably."

"Why do you think that was so?" I asked.

Captain Star Runner did not answer right away. "I do not have an
answer," it finally said. "I just knew I needed to learn. Perhaps it
is a matter of pride, a striving."

"A striving after what the gendered Pantherans do?" I asked.

"Perhaps. More what an independent Pantheran would do," Star Runner
said.

"I have been thinking about that since I came to the Tigerfu," I said.

"About me?" Captain Star Runner asked. "I would have thought you would
have been very angry at me for leaving you on Transfer Point
Seventeen."

"I was angry," I said. "I was very hurt, too, but I began, with help
from Dibenan, to understand much of my problems came from myself, not
from you or anyone else."

We were in the lounge. I was eating my breakfast, propped up by some
large pillows. Star Runner was lying on the floor with a fuzzy blanket
over it. Star Runner found the floor temperatures cold while I found
the ride a little warm. I was only wearing undergarments and that
helped a bit.

"I was thinking about what Dibenan and I were discussing about me,
about being your own person. Then Janker and Suchee came. We talked
about whether you are a creature or a person. I immediately said you
were a person. It made a difference how they treated you and
what happened next."

"And if I were a creature?" Star Runner asked.

"You would have been treated well, but you would not have agency," I
said.

"They were remembering when the Followers of the Stars cultivated
Members of the Race for their own purposes," Star Runner said.

"Exactly," I said. "But more than that, I said you had determined for
yourself to go out on your own. They found that remarkable."

"It was necessary," Star Runner said. "I would have been terminated
otherwise."

"Exactly," I said. "But you did not do that. Instead, you struck out
on your own."

I leaned over and took Star Runner's front paws in my hand and made
eye contact with those glittering green eyes. "I told them you were
special, that you were a fuchsia-colored Pantheran and this was your
mission and gift to your race. They had to treat you as a person."

"Do you really think that?" Star Runner asked.

"I do," I said. "You need to be the Pantheran you are to find a way
for your fellow ungendered Pantherans to be who they are. It may
simply be for you to show how to live independently. Someone else may
need to do other work."

"I cannot free all the ungendered Pantherans by myself," Star Runner
said, shrinking from the possibility.

"I do not think you have to. I think just convincing the Tigerfu will
be enough."

"Why do you say that?" Star Runner asked.

"The Followers of the Stars almost destroyed them once," I said, "but
they survived. I think they will eventually, probably not in our
lifetime, prevail. They will reach out to the western galactic arm, to
the races there that value freedom and individual choice. Tigerfu are
very socially-based. In a way they are like the Featherote and
pantherans, for that matter, but they also value individual
responsibility and choice like humans."

"You will not like me saying this," Star Runner said, "but I think
they should talk to Captain Gyllian Romeres-Lujo."

"Gyllian would be a good contact for them," I said. "I think Tamara
would be thrilled to add their history to her knowledge. They could
probably fill a lot of gaps in hers."

"Tamara saved my life," Captain Star Runner said. "I have been
thinking a lot about that. If you had not asked me about Tamara, I
would have been subsumed by the programs running aboard this ride."

I felt blindsided. I thought Suchee, Janker and I had saved Star
Runner's life. But I could see it from Star Runner's point of view.
The bond between it and Tamara was so strong that even under great
duress it could not give Tamara up. It must be a wonderful gift to
have a friendship like that. I must not degrade it by jealousy.

Star Runner reached out a front paw and placed it over my hand. "We
have had our ups and downs," Star Runner said. "I am not a very good
partner, but maybe your Tigerfu friends can help me learn."

We held each other that way for a time, not speaking. 

"I like that idea," i said. "I know i am often unfaithful to you, but
you are still the love of my life."

"I cannot give you what the others can," Star Runner said. In my
mind's eye, I saw the gestures of regret and sorrow, a sense of
inadequacy and frustration, too. I was thinking more and more in the
Tigerfu language of words and gestures.

"I cannot use that as an excuse anymore," I said, dropping Star
Runner's paw to make the Tigerfu gesture of finality.

"Suchee gave me a rimer on Tigerfu," Star Runner said. "it is a
special one designed for those Tigerfu who must use their paw arms. We
should study it together so you learn the alternate gestures. Then we
can talk in Tigerfu now that we live here."

"Can you speak Tigerfu?" I asked.

"I can make the sounds, if that what you mean?" That laughter sound
again. "You speak Tigerfu with a very thick accent. You cannot help
it. It is the way your mouth and tongue are shaped. I will speak it
well because the Tigerfu and i have similar mouth and tongue shapes.
Theirs are bigger, of course. They are bigger."

"The difference between a tiger and a cat," I said.

Star Runner's tail twitched. "Yes," it said without any additional
comment. The tail twitch was enough to mark its mild annoyance at the
comparison. It was, however, apt.

That evening we went to dinner with Suchee and Janker. They treated us
to a lovely meal aboard the research station.

"This reminds me of Over the Moon," Captain Star Runner said. "It is
an old spaceport in the star system Detective Ronnie Camberwell comes
from. The League of Hypatian Pirates use it, but enterprising
entrepreneurs have turned much of it into entertainments for spacers.
People from Ptolemy City, where Detective Ronnie Camberwell lived,
also come across. The upper floor has glass so you can see the stars.
There is no dome. It is quite magical like this.

"We thought it would be a safe introduction to our culture," Suchee
said. "Everyone on the research station knows about each of you. No
explanations or panics, just an acceptable level of curiosity."

"It is wonderful to be here," I said. "Thank you so much for your
invitation."

"Our pleasure," Suchee said. "Please do not think we are required to
do this. We want to get to know each of you better."

"I hope you do not think this is a work-related question," Janker
said, directing his comments to Captain Star Runner. "I was astonished
by your proficiency with the routing tables and the number of
insertion and extraction points you had created yourself. how do you
do that?"

"We were taught how to use those tables at school,," Captain Star
Runner replied, delicately eating its appetizer of dumplings. "If all
our automated systems failed, we needed to know how to get back home.
That covers the tables themselves. The other," it paused to eat
another dumpling. I knew Star Runner was trying to figure out what to
say. "We believe the Mother Of Us All has given each of us gifts.
Those of us bred to be star runners have the gift of sensing where
insertion and extraction points are. I would not be surprised if all
the jump gates you use were identified by Members of the Race,
particularly, star runners. I am particularly gifted. I can find them
and I can open existing gates that are either in disrepair or have
been locked. The Mother Of Us All has been very generous to me."

"What a wonderful name," Suchee said. "Can you tell me about her?"

"We see a constellation with many stars from our home world," Captain
Star Runner said. "The constellation is known as the Mother OF Us All.
She is a Pantheran, like us. We can see her body and her cape. The
cape is interesting because no Member of the Race will ever wear one
because the Mother Of Us All wears the cape. She watches over us and
if we can see any star in her constellation, we will be safe."

"And what if you cannot see any star?" Janker asked.

"Then we look in its direction." Star Runner pointed out into the
star-filled sky. "If you look on every star chart from here to my home
world, you will find the star representing her right ear is on this
line. I always know where the Mother of Us All is."

"Amazing," Suchee said.

"She protected me by sending all of you to me when I was in distress,"
Star Runner said.

"Are all the members of your race religious?" Suchee asked.

"No," Star Runner said. "It is quite old-fashioned to do and believe
as I do. I just know it is true. It is not the constellation that is
the Mother Of Us All. She is transcendent." Star Runner turned to me.
"I learned that from attending the night of singing you humans
celebrate."

"What is that?" Suchee asked me.

"Star Runner actually knows more about it than I do," I said, "but
there is the holiday of the birth of a significant individual in our
history. Some believe he saved the world in a spiritual sense. Every
year people gather together to sing and praise and tell the story
again. Star Runner finds it very moving."

"And do you?"

"I do not know," I said. "After this experience, I will have to think
about it some more."

The evening passed with more good food, good conversation and much
stargazing. Star Runner pointed out several Tigerfu constellations to
me. 

"These are our second group of significant constellations," Janker
said. "When we were driven out of  Tigerfu land we had to start all
over again. We adapted and created and we like our new stories."

"Tigerfu Land?" I asked.

"You have been there," Star Runner said. "It is Planet X."

"So the Tigerfu made all those structures?" I asked.

"No," Star Runner said. "The Followers of the Stars did. When I looked
at all the murals, I found representations of a lot of races,
including the Tigerfu, the Members of the Race, the Featherote and the
Trollolu. I found others, but I do not know who they are."

"We could probably identify them for you," Suchee said. "We heard of
this, of course. It was about races they controlled, their own Hall of
Shame we call it."

"It is almost in ruins," I said. I did not want to spoil the evening
by confronting Star Runner about what it knew and had not shared. We
still had a lot of things to get straight between us. Instead, I
wrapped my arm around its neck and scratched. A comfortable purr
greeted my ministrations.

Later that night Star Runner made love to me. I was very hesitant. It
did not have its artificial intelligence to simulate a mutual
experience. Instead, Star Runner showed me all the ways to give it
physical pleasure, where to rub and stroke. It already knew all my
areas. The gentle sound of Star Runner's purring made sleep come
easily.

Two days later, Janker and Suchee brought word from the Fungusians.

"I have no idea how they managed this turn around," Janker said.
"However they did it, it is amazing."

"What does it say?" I asked.

"We do not know," Suchee said. "We thought Captain Star Runner should
get the message first."

When Star Runner decoded the digital encryption it began to shake all
over.

"What is wrong?" Suchee and I asked quickly. Both she and Janker
gestured extreme agitation.

"They say the artificial intelligence cannot be repaired," Captain
Star Runner finally said. "It has been fatally compromised."

"Did we do something wrong?" Janker asked, again gesturing extreme
agitation.

"No," Captain Star Runner said, reading more. "They say you did your
best but the patches applied were at the molecular level and cannot be
removed. They give instructions for complete erasure and how to
disinfect my memory banks."

"That is a relief," I said.

"They say I should be congratulated at being such a stickler for
backing up my data," Captain Star Runner said. I heard a little of the
old confidence in its voice. "They have also sent very detailed
instructions for the software engineers to build a new artificial
intelligence. They say it will get the job done for me but without any
enhancements."

"What sort of enhancements?" Janker asked.

"Personality for one thing," Star Runner said. "I have worked with
this model before. It is basic and not very intuitive. I will have to
pay far more attention to the running of my ride, but that is
acceptable. I know how to do this. It may even be fun."

"We will proceed as quickly as possible," Janker said.

"We will have to set up some sort of payment," Captain Star Runner
said.

"No," Janker said. "You have provided us with those reports you were
couriering. That is sufficient payment for now."

"Were you able to decode them?" Star Runner asked.

"We were. By having that information, we have already saved many
lives. We also know of significant plans of the People of the Rainbow
Sky. That is helpful."

I waited for Captain Star Runner to be ready to talk with me. It was
so focused on its ride and the reconstruction of its artificial
intelligence. Even so, it took time to be with me, not talking deeply,
but physical presence. I found the sheer simplicity of our time
together so comforting.

I spent the time in meditation and reflection when I was not helping
with ride maintenance. The techniques Dibenan had taught me were
useful. I also made time, in the wee hours of my morning, to talk with
her.

"You are doing good work there," Dibenan told me. "Keep it up. Your
relationship with Captain Star Runner is finding its own way. Have you
noticed how vulnerable you are to each other. There is no pretense any
more. The barrier each of you felt with the presence of the artificial
intelligence is gone. How do you feel about that?"

"Free," I said before I could think of an answer. "I do not feel as if
I am being watched or judged. Star Runner is very open. I could say it
is simple, but it is not."

"Not simple as in emotionally or mentally inferior?" Dibenan asked.

"Simple meaning not hiding anything or over complicating," I said. "I
think I am going to like the new artificial intelligence. I think Star
Runner is looking forward to something less intrusive, too."

"Simple is often better," Dibenan said. "Not always, of course, but in
this case, it might be the right anecdote for both of you." She
paused. I waited. Her gesture suggested a change of direction, a new
thought. "Have you considered what you are going to do next? Will you
stay with Star Runner or do something else?"

"I have been meditating and reflecting on that as my practice," I
said. "The research station is quite pleasant. I have visited there
almost daily. I am comfortable with these Tigerfu as well. I think I
would like to come back to the Habitat and start my training. Star
Runner and I have not worked anything out yet."

"You have a lot of issues to work out," Dibenan said.

"We do," I agreed. "However, we are living in the moment right now.
Much is unsettled."

"For a long-term relationship to work--" Dibenan began.

I interrupted her, "Yes, we have a lot to discuss. This is quite
difficult because Captain Star Runner is not hooked up to its memory
banks. It is recording these memories but does not have its full
capabilities on line. Besides," I added, "its focus will be integrating
with the new artificial intelligence and getting its life in order.
Conversation is ongoing with military intelligence."

"Perhaps," Dibenan said, "there is a place for you in intelligence."

I stopped what I was going to say. "I had not thought of that," I
said.

"Criminal investigation as well," Dibenan continued. "I will make some
inquiries."

I had not considered any of this. The military hardly seemed the place
for me, but there was a war on. People who did not see themselves as
having a military bent often served in wartime.

I realized--Dibenan would have been pleased--that I was not trusting
again, scurrying back to the Habitat and its protective world, pushing
Star, Suchee and Janker away from me, ready to take up professional
relationships with Gemall and Dibenan and pretend they were friends.

"Detective Ronnie Camberwell," Star Runner called. "Suchee and Janker
are here. We are ready to turn on the artificial intelligence."

I went to the control center. Workers and bots had been coming in and
out of the ride for several days. The control center had been under
construction. I had assumed this work was directly tied to the
installation of the artificial intelligence. I found the pedestal the
People of the Rainbow Sky had installed had been removed. Star
Runner's familiar acceleration web replaced the pedestal. Several
chairs suitable for Tigerfu and a human chair had been installed along
with all the requisite screens and controls. I sat down in my chair.

"Very nice," I said to Star Runner. "Very thoughtful of you."

My screen was lit. I saw information about the start process. Star
Runner did not climb into its acceleration web, but stood back,
hopping from paw to paw with anticipation. I surmised it was getting a
visual feed.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF


		Consider what sort of display futuristic humans would
		use--a visual display like Captain Star Runner's
		within the brain, on a personal device or on an
		external screen.

"Everything is looking good," one of the engineers said.

"Everything checks out," Janker said.

"Captain Star Runner, is everything all right?" Suchee asked.

"I am checking my status reports," Star Runner said. It stepped toward
my screen. "Detective Ronnie Camberwell, please bring up ride status."

That was easy enough. I had a control labeled status.

"My internal feed from the artificial intelligence matches the status
report on the screen," Captain Star Runner said.

"The artificial intelligence is working with ship systems," Janker
said. Turning to the engineer, he said, "Now for personal
integration."

This was the test. Both the engineer and Janker tensed, ready to
disable the artificial intelligence if something went wrong. Suchee
moved to stand by Captain Star Runner. My stomach churned.

"Integration complete," Janker said. "Captain Star Runner--"

Star Runner said nothing for five whole seconds, but did not indicate
any distress.

"Sorry," Star Runner said. "We were establishing a connection."

"Is everything all right?" Suchee asked.

"Yes, as far as I can tell," Star Runner said. "This is a familiar AI
to me. We have worked together before although this particular
instance has not accessed those records completely. It will have to run
for some time creating all its indexes and cross references. I am
connected but we are not fully synchronized. I am going to be busy
directing and helping. I will not be able to speak." Star Runner moved
to the acceleration web. "Time to do the medical tests, Suchee. Please
oversee."

I monitored the vessel's displays both in the control center and in
the cargo hold. Suchee monitored Star Runner and Janker and the
engineer monitored everything else. When everything was finished, we
were all exhausted but very happy.

Later we had a party aboard the research station. Many came to
celebrate. Many needed to be thanked.

I saw Star Runner in a huddle with several of the Intelligence
personnel including Janker.

"They are discussing assignments," Suchee said, taking my arm. "You
might want to chat with these people."

Surprised, I let her guide me over to one of the floor to ceiling
windows looking outward to space.

.. ADMONITION:: NOTE TO SELF


		I am not up to names right now. These people may get
		names later.

After introductions, the colonel said to me, "We understand your
background is police work and investigations."

"That is correct," I said.

"We have read the reports Gemall and Dibenan have sent us and the
recommendations Janker and Suchee have given. We were wondering if you
would be interested in working for us."

"And who would us be?" I asked.

"We are a special task force," the colonel said. "We are investigating
war crimes perpetrated by the People of the Rainbow Sky and the
Followers of the Stars. It is tough work, but I think you will find it
rewarding."

"Yes," I said. "I think I will."


When we returned to Captain Star Runner's ride, Star Runner said to
me, "I have a mission. Unfortunately, I cannot discuss it with you.
Unfortunately, it means you cannot go with me."

"How do you feel about that?" I asked.

"Sad," Star Runner said. "We have lots to talk about. There has not
been time."

"I am sad, too," I said, "because we do have lots of things to talk
about, but I am excited for you and I have news, too. I have a job
with the special task force on war crimes."

"That is excellent," Star Runner said. "We have a future here in
Tigerfu land."

Some Final Notes
----------------

This has been a very messy story to write. It is not well-plotted or
well-balanced, but the general outline of it pleases me. Many holes
remain. Here are a few I know off the top of my head.


1. It is not clear who is fighting who and why. The players in the war
   need to be sorted out more clearly and the players identified and
   what they hope to achieve.

2. The People of the Golden Sun need to be clarified. Are they a
   propaganda tool of the People of the Rainbow Sky or are they a real
   group, perhaps pirates, that the People of the Rainbow Sky have
   exploited.

3. What are the Followers of the Stars up to.

4. What were the agents on Transfer Point Seventeen doing and was Suri
   Iglesia involved?

5. How does the archaeological work on Planet X fit in?

6. What is the state of technology in general? How advanced is
   everyone anyway? 

Just some thoughts.

It was fun.

The End
