Behind Enemy Lines
==================

A Ronnie Camberwell Adventure Book 4
------------------------------------

The Adventures of Star Runner, the Pantheran Book Unknown
---------------------------------------------------------

by Rill
~~~~~~~

Prologue
--------

I read somewhere that novels should not have prologues. This one,
however, needs one.

As in my last novel, *Marathon, National Novel Writing Month 2013*, this
story is told from several perspectives. I am  the primary
narrator, but Captain Star Runner also narrates events from her
perspective. At times we speak in our own voice. At other times, I
have taken the liberty of narrating in the third person to introduce
information and perspectives that I did not have at the time but which
will help you, the reader, make sense of this convoluted tale.

As background, (I cannot assume you know our backgrounds), Captain
Star Runner and I have moved to another arm of the galaxy. We call our
own arm the western galactic arm or the spiral arm. The people here
call their arm the primary arm. 

I am a human being from the Pharaoh Star System. My background is
police enforcement in Ptolemy City. Captain Star Runner is a
fuchsia-colored genderless Pantheran. I call Star *her*. Others call
Star *him*. Star is comfortable with *it*.  I am not.

Once we were a registered couple. We broke up. We're together again
but we have not made it legally binding. This arrangement is working
well enough. Captain Star Runner makes her living as a courier. She is
genetically engineered by the Pantheran Institute of Genetic Design to
live in conjunction with an artificial intelligence to pilot a starship
and to have the AI manage her biological functions. The AI is called
Christabel.

I do not like living aboard a spaceship and traveling about. Star
finds this odd since Ptolemy City is a domed area of Hypoxia which has
an extremely violent and toxic atmosphere. I think it is the presence
of a sky. The dome over Ptolemy City is clear and I can always look up
to see scudding yellow and red clouds with bursts of other colors
swirling overhead. The ceiling on a spaceship and the solid walls
gives me a sense of being hemmed in. Star Runner finds this feeling
comforting and reassuring. I find it claustrophobic.

The space station called Half Moon Bay is a bit more open. I have a
cubbyhole there and make the space station my home. I come aboard
Captain Star Runner's ride whenever she is in port. I also frequent
the hydroponic gardens and other open areas on the space station.

Half Moon Bay Space Station is run by the Space Traders Guild. This is
a loose confederation of humanoid peoples. Among these are the Rabbit
People. Captain Star Runner made friends with a Rabbit Man named Salim
in her adventure *Sanctuary, National Novel Writing Month 2011*. I
operate as an investigator there with Jack Whitier.

I tell you all this to get you ready for this current adventure. 

Chapter One (Ronnie)
--------------------

Author: I would write the account of this adventure with lovely
markers as to place, time and day but I have no idea what that would
look like. I can probably get the place right. Let's try that. This
is, after all, a first draft.

Space Transfer Point 724, Local Time: Evening
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Heracles pointed the  evaporator gun   right at my collar bone. I was
in no doubt he would shoot. I was definitely scared. In fact, I was
very scared. And then I thought to myself: Why be scared. You are
going to die. Your body will not be found. Someone might test for
particles, might notice an odor, but given the fact that we were in a
seedy part of the space transfer point, it was unlikely anyone would
investigate. By the time Captain Star Runner returned (if Captain Star
Runner ever returned), there would be no way to determine I was killed
here. Heracles would have plenty of opportunity to sanitize the area.

And then I grew calm. Given the imminent reality of my death and the
means of my death, I could put my focus elsewhere. I could talk to
Heracles and see if I could talk him out of shooting me. That may seem
a strange thing to do in the final seconds of your life, but I made a
conscious decision not to spend my last seconds being afraid. I don't
like feeling afraid. It makes me feel weak, ineffectual and, frankly,
quite silly and juvenile.

So I straightened up and took a step  forward. Surprisingly, Heracles
still didn't shoot. I was waiting for the "Sorry I have to do this to
you, Ronnie" speech but it didn't come.

I said, "Heracles, you can't go on shooting people. I works for a
while. You can shoot yourself out of one situation and then another
and another, but at some point, this strategy won't work. Someone will
get to you before you get to them. Or someone will arrest you before
you can get them alone to evaporate them. Or worse, someone will get a
hold of you and do things to you which are very disagreeable or
painful or both. You are dealing with some very nasty forces and they
have no interest in you at all. You are nothing more than a pawn in
their galactic politics. They'll get tired of you and then poof!
You'll be gone and they will carry on with no more thoughts about
you."

It was, upon reflection, a very trite speech. The difficulty of
triteness is that it is often still true. The entities involved were
massive and Heracles was only a member of a minor noble family in a
dying empire. His death was of no importance to the powerful members
of Lysistrata and certainly of no importance to the other imperial
players.

I knew with this speech I was also indicating how unimportant I was,
but I hoped Heracles wouldn't notice that. I was important to him
because I knew what had already happened and how he was involved. I
also was getting a handle on the beginner picture. I was not at all
certain Heracles knew what that picture was. 

And that is what did it. He lowered the gun.

.. admonition:: NOTE TO SELF

          This probably should go in a later chapter. I need to leave
	  the reader with the evaporator gun pointing at Ronnie, but
	  I will leave it for now.

Chapter Two (Ronnie)
--------------------

Half Moon Bay Space Station: Previously
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"Let me understand you." Captain Star Runner sat up on her pedestal in
the control center of her ride. "You want me to take you to Planet X?"

"That's right," I said.

"for what purpose?"

"I need to guard some people I will meet there.."

"Why?"

"The less I say about this case the better," I said.

Star twitched her tail. She was getting agitated.

"I don't like secrets," she said. "I share everything with you."

I sighed.

Star twitched her tail again.

I had not meant to sigh out loud.

"Privacy is not the same as keeping secret," I said. 

How many times had I gone over this same ground with Star Runner?
Since her interface with the AI Christabel was a two-way exchange of
data, Star Runner could not understand withholding information from an
intimate. She expected our relationship to function on the same level
of exchange. She had purchased an information link which was
integrated into my nervous system. With this I could access the space
station wide network. I could also interface with Christabel. In this
way Star Runner expected me to interface with her. That I did not
fully trust Christabel with all my thoughts dumbfounded Star Runner.
She could not imagine nor had she ever lived without an AI sharing her
thought space. I found the whole concept repugnant. I want my own
self hood. I do not want to share my innermost thoughts and feelings
with two alien minds, the Fungus artificial intelligence Christabel
and the Pantheran engineered Star Runner. I do not want to share that
level of intimacy with any other human either. It is not a racial
preference on my part.

"This case has a lot of cloak and dagger about it," I said, regretting
my words as soon as I spoke them. Cloak and dagger would spark Star
Runner's interest for sure.

"Really?" Star's ears swivveled this way and that on top of her head as if she could hear
something I was not saying.

"Two archeological students need guarding. I'm going to Planet X.. If
you go along, I can use the cover of going on holiday."

"To Planet x?" Star Runner was incredulous.

"There's a hotel on top of a mountain from what I understand. There's
a fanikula that runs up the side of the mountain to get there."

"The hotel is barely functioning."

Christabel inserted herself into
our conversation.I was annoyed. She was always there, always
listening, alwwyas making a record of what we said and what we did.
This was Star Runner's memory bank. 

Christabel said, "It would be a tough cover to maintain."

"It is all I have." I felt defeated. Planet X was where the students
had made some sort of discovery. I was hazy on the details. They
thought their discovery would upset certain powerful entities and one
of them had asked for protection. The request came to me. I needed
work so I had made the contract. Now it looked like Star Runner would
not help me and how would I get to Planet X.

"a vacation with you could be fun," Star Runner said.

"Vacation is a cover story," I expllained as patiently as I could. "It
doesn't mean it will actually be a vacation."

"But people will have to think we are on vacation," Star Runner
pointed out. "That means we will have a nice room and go to meals
together and do some fun things."

I was beginning to think Star was warming up to the idea. As for me,
I was thinking my initial idea was a bad one. Everyone in the primary
arm knew about genderless Pantherans. They did not go on vacations.

