---
layout: post
title: Update
date: 2007-01-16 18:46
author: rillonline
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p>On Saturday we were able to get out and walk. If the rain we have had was turned into snow, I don't think we would dig out until June. Elwood did very well on our walk, down 2nd, up Prendergast, across on 4th and back down Main to 3rd. He did think Potter's Alley might be the route off of 4th, but that is, as Patience once remarked, a better endeavor with a skate board than a dog.
<p>It was damp, nasty and cold by the time we went to church. I tried something new---putting the gentle leader on Elwood during the service. I also used the flexi lead to continue to get him (and me) used to it. He was relatively good though the Peace continues to be an opportunity to stand with the pack. I'm not standing at all at this point, focusing instead on keeping him down. 
<p>When we got to Communion, Elwood decided to investigate the pew cushions. Ok. Laying across the pew cushions isn't great but if he's quiet ... Taking the cup in my right hand is an adventure. I can't even find my mouth with my right hand. Fortunately, the assisting minister is well-trained and neither lets go of the cup nor hesitates to guide the cup to my mouth. And then, Elwood flops to the floor in perfect form, jerking my whole body. Wine splashes on my face, my sweater. Someone is now seeing if they can get the wine out of my sweater.
<p>After the service, someone comes over to offer a ride home because of the inclement conditions. No, we'll walk. It's not snowing. It's not really raining, just misting, and it is more complicated to accept a ride than walk.
<p>We leave the church and Elwood finds the good folks getting into their car. He dashes over. Did I want a ride after all? Well, apparently, Elwood understood more of the conversation than I thought. Time to refocus Elwood on his work.
<p><strong>Rant:</strong> And then there was the girl at the corner of 3rd and Main when we were going to church who bounces across Main and says, Hi, Puppy! and Elwood jumps on her. I'm trying to position myself at the rounded ramp to cross 3rd. I have a dog who now lunges out into the street. Stop! Let's get re situated here. Let's check traffic again. Why do people talk to my dog? 
<ul>
<li>Friends.</li>
<li>Strangers.</li>
<li>People who should know better.</li>
<li>People who I have told repeatedly not to talk to my dog.</li>
<li>People who don't know either me or my dog.</li>
</ul>
It's like messing with someone's car or kid or partner. It's that invasive. <strong>End Rant</strong>
<p>We went shopping. Elwood wants to be a shopper, sample the merchandise. He removed a button from a pillow. Sniffed everything and everybody. Went down aisles he wasn't told to investigate.
<p>I've decided his question is more <q>What's that?</q> than <q>I want it.</q> He decided to jump up to the counter to check out my 9-grain loaf of bread. I am becoming convinced that crate-training dogs is a mixed blessing. It means they don't have to behave while you're cooking, while you're eating.
<p>So far, we've missed the big storm. I went out tonight and there was a covering on the walks but not on the streets. I lost the poop bag--with the poop in it, so if you come across a teal plastic bag ... toss it!
<p>I went to put Elwood's bell on him. I like this bell. I can hear him. It wasn't on the bookshelf by the door. Thinking it had fallen, I got down on the floor. Elwood thought we might be playing. He licked my ear, then nipped it. Ouch! I'm not available for that. I found his bell on my dresser.
<p>Elwood had a few minutes of puppy aerobics, racing around wildly, wondering if he could engage me, especially my fingers. He is none too gentle so I keep track of his teeth and my proximity to them.
<p>The other night, Elwood tried to lay down in my lap. This is very hard to do if not impossible. I tried sitting in the upholstered rocker. He settled in with his back feet on the floor. I was finally able to convince him to lay between my feet on the floor. This satisfies him greatly. Today I showed him it is possible to do this at the table, too. It is quite fine to sit with a dog curled between your feet.
<p>Right now he is chomping quite enthusiastically on one of his bones. A lot of energy to burn on yet another miserable evening.
