---
layout: post
title: 5K
date: 2007-05-19 15:46
author: rillonline
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p>Today Elwood and I participated in a 5k run-walk. You can <a href="http://thewingedox.blogspot.com/2007/05/5k.html">go here</a>
to learn more.
<p>We've been doing well, going about town. Elwood likes to go places. Just walking bores him. Today was better. He went places he had never been before.
<p>One day recently we went to the Blind Association. You have to keep your history straight to do this ... Washington, lafayette, Jefferson, Clinton. I'm
sure the street is named for the governor of New York, not the president and you would then have to keep Bill's middle name and last name straight. Anyway,
we pass the library. On the way bback, Elwood decided we needed to go to the library. How do you tell the librarian you need help finding a cd-book because
your dog thought you needed to borrow one?
<p>We are also learning how to get to Tim Horton's. Elwood is on a mission (I don't think from God) to find the front door. Heaven help you if you are coming
out. We went. No problem. I had lunch. No real problem. We found the correct door out--one of my concerns. Then, somehow, we were walking through the parking
lot and not on the sidewalk.
<p>The thing here is to stay safe and let your dog work. Easier said than done. I tried to figure out where we were. Eventually, I felt we were near a building.
I assume we had worked our way to Big Lots and the dollar store. We have walked with a friend from Tim Horton's there. Then I found a vehicle and a curb,
but I couldn't get up on the curb because there were bushes and then another car. What to do?
<p>Then the person in the car behind us did something truly marvelous.
<blockquote>
Are you looking for the atm?
</blockquote>
<p>Oh, we were in the drive-through for the bank!
<blockquote>
No, I'm trying to get to the sidewalk.
</blockquote>
<p>The person then gave me clear and simple directions. Cross the driveway in front of the car, go up the grassy embankment and onto the sidewalk. When
we were there, I turned right and hoped for the best. It was quite a trek back to the corner, but we made it and home, too.
<p>We will work with our mobility instructor about getting out of Tim Horton's successfully. Obviously, Elwood was up for an adventure and not for going
home. Would Tim Bits help?
