---
layout: post
title: LucyDays
date: 2007-05-27 09:40
author: rillonline
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Elwood and I are getting ready to go to Fredonia to worship at First Baptist and celebrate Pentecost. Elwood's preparation has been getting brushed. He went to the groomer's Wednesday for a long overdue bath. (There was a 5-week wait. I didn't want him to get wet during the very cold winter months since getting completely dry before going outside is difficult.) That got a lot of his fur off, but, apparently, he is doing some serious shedding. I opted out of my black pants to go with my red shirt.

We've been having Lucy Days here but, at least on my street, they have not been wel-attended. Last night one of the vendors was taking down his booth. This year there were booths with awnings. I know. I almost&nbsp;knocked one of them down.

Elwood's difficulty was that he thought he knew how our sidewalk was. Then he came outside to discover it completely changed. More people. Booths with food. Generators running. He wanted to investigate. I wanted to take him&nbsp;out and get back inside with as little inconvenience as possible.

Last night we ran into a barricade. We got around it. The barricade was in our way because it had been moved to keep the street open. I was under the impression the street was open because cars kept coming down Pine Street. To avoid the barricade on the way back, we crossed in the middle of the street but it was all quiet--8 o'clock on a Saturday night during a festival and no one was around. It was overcast and chilly, getting colder all day.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
