The Hidden Face of God

By

Merrill Louise

Good Friday, 2002

Text: Psalm 22

In the name of Jesus.

Shadows-- 

The emptiness where no light penetrates.

Darkness--

It covers the face of the earth at Jesus? death.  

Fearsome--

Forsaken by God and all humanity. 

These are the metaphors that define our worship tonight. "The night,"
Langston Hughes wrote, "is black like me." But these shadows, this
darkness, is not the blackness of African skin or evening rest. This is
the vast emptiness of space, the abandonment of friends, the fading away
of vitality, the hidden face of God.

Christians down the centuries have called this by its Latin name, deus
Absconditus--the absence of God. It may sound funny to our ears to
suggest that God has run out on us, but it certainly doesn?t feel funny
at all. Perhaps that is why the Old Testament writers spoke so
concretely of God hiding God?s face from us. The radiance of God?s face
is such a familiar way for us to speak about God?s presence in our
lives. Hear these familiar words:

The LORD bless you and keep you;

the LORD make his face to shine upon you, 

and be gracious to you;

the LORD lift up his countenance upon you, 

and give you peace.

(Numbers 6:24-26)

Good Friday is a time for Christians to contemplate the unbearable
fearsomeness of the hidden face of God--not just for Jesus? sake,  not
just for ourselves, but for others. On this day, down the centuries,
Jews cowered in their homes with all the doors locked because Christians
were reading the passion of St. John in church. Often after the worship
service concluded, mobs went into the ghettos, broke into Jewish homes
dragged the occupants out, killing, maiming, destroying lives and
property. Religious fanaticism and terrorism is not new. We dare not
forget that our sacred story has been used to perpetrate suffering and
violence leading to death  against the innocent.

The refrain of an old song says:

Jesus walked that lonesome valley.

He had to walk it by himself.

Ain?t nobody else gonna walk it for him.

He had to walk it by himself. 

The only sense we can make of Jesus? death on the cross is to do it the
way Jesus did it: to recall Psalm 22, the psalm we just read. We also
listen to selected portions of Scripture from Isaiah and the Gospel of
John later in the service. Listen. Pray. Sing. One by one, the lights
are extinguished. Sit in the shadows. The room grows darker. The light
fades away to a flickering candle flame.

Many young bulls encircle me, 

strong bulls of Bashan surround me; 

they open wide their jaws at me, 

like a ravening and roaring lion.

Packs of dogs close me in, 

save  my life from the power of the dog! 

Save me from the lion?s mouth, 

My wretched body from the horns of wild bulls.

(Psalm 22:12-13, 16, 20-21) 

The crucified were not hung high. Roman soldiers drove the wild beasts
away to prolong the victim?s suffering, but the animals watched
patiently for their opportunity. Likewise, passers-by stopped to
disparage the condemned. Writing to the church at Rome while being
conducted there for execution around the year 115, Bishop Ignatius of
Antioch describes his captivity this way: "From Syria even unto Rome I
fight with beasts, both by land and sea, both by night and day, being
bound to ten leopards, I mean a band of soldiers, who, even when they
receive benefits, show themselves all the worse" (Romans 5:31-33).

Hunted down--

The fearsome lion, the goring bull, the hounds of hell

Ring the crucified. 

Fingers point.

Tongues mock.

Stalkers isolate their prey.

Cut off from the possibility of human compassion by the vigilance of
soldiers, the crucified dies.  At first the body struggles to maintain
an upright position, but then, exhausted, the body collapses on itself
and, under its own weight, suffocates.

I am poured out like water; 

all my bones are out of joint;

My heart within my breast is melting wax.

My mouth is dried out like a potsherd;

My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth.

The body--

Vitality dribbles away like the winter snows in spring.

Air--

One?s own body smothers God-breathed-life.

Deserted by friends, relatives, associates and neighbors, betrayed by
the destructibility of frail flesh, the crucified turns all hope of
rescue to God only to find God absent, hidden, silent. The crucified
cries out,

My God, my God, 

why have you forsaken me? 

O my God, I cry in the daytime,

But you do not answer;

By night as well,

But I find no rest.

Be not far from me, 

for trouble is near,

and there is no one to help.

By now, the room is almost completely dark. Put the bulletin aside. You
can no longer read it. In the stillness, hear the sound of your
neighbor?s breathing, feel the rhythm of your own heart beating. The
candle burns faintly. What if it were to go out? 

On Good Friday, the flame of God?s presence did go out for Jesus. God
was truly hidden. Jesus was entirely alone, abandoned by everyone and
bereft of God. 

The earth--

Covered its face with darkness.

The sun--

Hid  itself behind shadows. 

The vision--

Too terrible to see.

Jesus--

By humanity despised and rejected.

Jesus--

By God forsaken.

Jesus--

Utterly human.

Utterly divine.

Utterly alone.

Deus Absconditus.

"Now there was a garden in the place where [Jesus] was crucified, and in
the garden there was a new tomb in which no one had ever been laid. And
so, because the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there" (

John 19:41-42)

The bodies of the crucified were left on the crosses to be dismembered
by beasts and to decompose--a final indignity, a lasting shame. The
burial of Jesus does not speak to us of an indignity put right, a shame
removed,  but testifies to us that Jesus is the "light of the world",
that  The light shines in the darkness, and "the darkness did not
overcome it" (John 8:12, 1:5).

The Christ candle flame penetrates the darkness. God?s face is no longer
hidden from us. There may be times when we think God has run out on us,
but in those times of bereavement, know this: God heard the psalmist?s
cry and answered. God responded to Jesus? death by raising him to new
life. God will hear you and answer you. 

I will declare your name to my brothers and sisters;

  In the midst of the congregation I will praise you.

Praise the Lord, you that fear him;

  Stand in awe of him, O offspring of Israel; all you of Jacob?s line,
give glory.

For he does not despise nor abhor the poor in their poverty; neither
does he hide his face from them;

  But when they cry to him he hears them.

Noise--

A prison door clanging shut?

A coffin lid closed?

A stone rolled against the opening of a newly hewn burial cave?

No! A mystery--

The stone rolled away.

The tomb empty.

Jesus--

Alive! Raised from the dead! 

Amen

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Pastor Merrill Louise is a podcaster, writer and spiritual guide.

``I value the vulnerable, the poor and the poor in spirit. My podcasts
are for people who are actively seeking a connection with God or who
have a vague sense something is missing from their lives.''

Merrill Louise also writes poetry and a personal blog. For more
information, visit   HYPERLINK
"http://www.YourRealLifeSpiritualGuide.com/" 
http://www.YourRealLifeSpiritualGuide.com/ 



  

This work is licensed under a   HYPERLINK
"http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/"  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 License .

(footnote continued)

.

.

.

.

.

.

..

.

.

