# A Spirit of Cowardice #

:*Date: 2016-02-28 18:03:43*
---

I have sought various ways to be connected to Jesus.

* Prayer lists.
* Devotionals.
* Prayer beads.
* Journals.
* Reminders.
* Meditation.
* Meditation groups.

None of these work particularly well for me.

Recently I have subscribed to a verse of the day email. These can get quite boring and it is easy to read quickly, swipe and be done. The verse is almost immediately forgotten and I go on with my day.

kkkI am not a particularly consistent journaler or blogger. That is
easy enough to see. But I've decided to try again and write a little
on the verse of the day as I am able and see if it can become more
habitual.

One caveat: These are not "finished" essays. I'm looking for an
opportunity for me to interact with the text for my own life and
relationship with Jesus. If that helps you, that's great. Otherwise,
just move on.

Today's verse is 2 Timothy 1:7. From the New Revised Standard Version (NRSV)

> for God did not give us a spirit of cowardice, but rather a spirit
> of power and of love and of self-discipline.

I did a little checking. The word "cowardice" has been translated
several ways. (I don't recall the Greek. You can look it up if you
like. I did.)

* cowardice
* timidity
* fear

Self-discipline has to do with sound reasoning rather than self-control.

So, if I claim to be part of the "us" rather than limiting it to Paul
and Timothy, the spirit I have been given is not cowardly but
powerful, loving and thinks clearly.

In today's world, we are encouraged to get along, to accept there are
different points of view and to honor these differences and
viewpoints. I think I do that rather well. What this text suggests to
me is to not be afraid to express my own opinions and to act when the
Spirit prompts me to action.

I think I can live with this and pay attention to those times when I
am timid. Mostly, I do not identify myself in secular situations as
Christian. I say it is because I don't want to attract the crazies. I
wonder if I am ignoring the spirit Jesus has given me. I'll have to
test this out in the coming days.

